<!doctype tei.2 public '-//TEI//DTD TEI Tools 0.1//EN'>
<!-- $Id$ -->
<TEI.2 lang='en'>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <teiHeader>
    <fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>
          GoldED+ Reference Manual
        </title>
      </titleStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>
          Created in electronic form.
        </p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc>
    <profileDesc>
      <langUsage>
        <language id="en">
          English
        </language>
      </langUsage>
    </profileDesc>
  </teiHeader>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <text>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <front>
    <titlePage>
      <docTitle>
        <titlePart type=main>
          GoldED+
        </titlePart>
        <titlePart type=desc>
          Reference Manual
        </titlePart>
      </docTitle>
      <docAuthor>
        Odinn Sorensen, Dirk A. Mueller, Alexander S. Aganichev and others
      </docAuthor>
      <docDate>
        1990-1999
      </docDate>
    </titlePage>
    <divGen type=toc>
  </front>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <body>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Commandline Reference
    </head>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Commandline syntax
      </head>
      <p>
        Invocation: <code>GoldED &lsqb;options&rsqb; &lsqb;keystacking&rsqb;
        </code>
      </p>
      <p>
        Depending on used platform <name>GoldED+</name> could be called
        <code>geddjg</code>, <code>gedcyg</code>, <code>gedemx</code>, or
        <code>gedlnx</code>. Available options are:
        <list type=gloss>
          <label>
            <code>-?</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Displays a help screen with all available commandline options.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-C&lt;configname&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Specifies another configuration file than the default
            <code>GOLDED.CFG</code>.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-D</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Disable old configuration keywords. For backward compatibility,
            <name>GoldED+</name> still supports a number of old names for
            some configuration keywords. I recommend that you use
            <code>-D</code> sometimes and rename the keywords that are
            reported as unknown.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-E&lt;echoid&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            If specified, <name>GoldED+</name> starts directly in the
            specified echo, bypassing the arealist screen. See the
            <ref target=AREASTART><kw>AREASTART</kw></ref> configuration
            keyword for more info.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-EXPORTSOUP</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Calls the <abbr>SOUP</abbr> packet export feature during the
            startup phase. This is the same as starting it from the
            areascan <code>SOUP Packet-&gt;Export</code> menu item. The
            <abbr>SOUP</abbr> export happens immediately after the regular
            startup area scanning (if that is enabled) and after
            <abbr>SOUP</abbr> import.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-F</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Force recompile of most configuration files, but not all. Does not
            recompile the <code>*.CHS</code> files.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-FF</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Force complete recompile of all configuration files, regardless of
            whether they are up-to-date or not. This is equivalent to deleting
            all the <code>*.GE?</code> files.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-H</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Same as option <code>-?</code>.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-INSTALL&lsqb;=path&rsqb;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Start the quick install procedure. You should give a path to your
            other mail software if it cannot be found using environment
            variables or in current directory.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-IMPORTSOUP</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Calls the <abbr>SOUP</abbr> packet import feature during the
            startup phase. This is the same as starting it from the areascan
            <code>SOUP Packet-&gt;Import</code> menu item. The
            <abbr>SOUP</abbr> import happens immediately after the regular
            startup area scanning (if that is enabled).
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-M</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Mute. Disables all sounds in <name>GoldED+</name>.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-N</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            No share. If used, this prevents <name>GoldED+</name> from using
            <code>SHARE</code> compatible file-open calls, which are used by
            default. Works only until the
            <ref target=SHAREMODE><kw>SHAREMODE</kw></ref> keyword is used in
            <code>GOLDED.CFG</code>. This keyword is normally not useful, but
            may be used to debug your setup or something.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-NOSCAN</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Disable the automatic startup area scanning (if that is enabled).
            This is useful for automated <abbr>SOUP</abbr> import/export in a
            batch file. For example, <q><code>-noscan -importsoup @x
            y</code></q> imports <abbr>SOUP</abbr> then exits.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-P</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Since it seems that increasing the thread priority for the
            <name>Win32</name> version is a mixed blessing, the default is now
            to <hi>not</hi> increase the priority. From other side
            <name>OS/2</name> version runned with reduced priority by default.
            This option increases the priority (<name>Win32</name> and
            <name>OS/2</name> only).
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-Q</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Quiet. Turns off verbose config compile. On by default. This could
            be used on the commandline to disable a <code>-V</code> option in
            the <code>GEDCMD</code> environment variable.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-S&lt;sortspec&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Sort all areas according to <ident>&lt;sortspec&gt;</ident>. See
            the <ref target=AREALISTSORT><kw>AREALISTSORT</kw></ref> config
            keyword for details.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-T&lt;seconds&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Set the timeout value. A value of zero (0) means never timeout.
            See the <ref target=TIMEOUT><kw>TIMEOUT</kw></ref> config keyword
            for details.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-V</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Turns on verbose config compile. When used, <name>GoldED+</name>
            will display the full filename of each main config file it
            compiles. It also displays the name of the detected multitasker, if
            any. This can be useful for debugging your setup, and see if
            <name>GoldED+</name> accesses the files (especially the
            <ref target=AREACONFIGURATION><kw>AREAFILE</kw></ref>'s) it is
            supposed to.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-VV</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Same as <code>-V</code>, but also displays all the active lines
            while compiling. This could be used to find the exact spot if it
            crashes or stops while compiling.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-W</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            If used, <name>GoldED+</name> will create (and overwrite if
            existing) the file <code>GOLDAREA.INC</code>, which will then
            contain all areas in the <kw>AREADEF</kw> form, sorted by your
            <kw>AREALISTSORT</kw> specification. This is very useful for
            converting your <kw>AREAFILE</kw>'s to a form you can edit with
            your favorite text editor and use in <name>GoldED+</name>. It is
            also useful if you have used the new <kw>AREADESC</kw> keyword or
            the <code>AREAFILE EchoList</code> reader. The
            <code>GOLDAREA.INC</code> file (created in the
            <code>GOLDPATH</code>) can be used by adding <q><code>INCLUDE
            GOLDAREA.INC</code></q> to your <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> or
            <code>GOLDAREA.CFG</code>. When creating the file,
            <name>GoldED+</name> will use <q>.</q> if an aka is the same as
            the main aka, and leave out the optional origin if it's the same
            as the first <kw>ORIGIN</kw> in your <code>GOLDED.CFG</code>.
            This makes it easier to share the same <code>GOLDAREA.INC</code>
            between different setups.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-X</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Reserved for debugging purposes.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-Y</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Reserved for debugging purposes.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-Z</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Reserved for debugging purposes.
          </item>
        </list>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Commandline keystacking
      </head>
      <p>
        Any non-option characters on the commandline are stuffed into the
        keyboard buffer. See the chapter on keyboard definition and the
        <ref target=KEYBSTACK><kw>KEYBSTACK</kw></ref> keyword for more info.
      </p>
      <p>
        Example:<eg>
GOLDED @S A</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        Makes <name>GoldED+</name> go to the area scanning menu &lt;Alt-S&gt;,
        and select scanning of &lt;A&gt; all areas.
      </p>
      <p>
        See the <ptr target=MACROSANDKEYSTACKING> chapter for more info.
      </p>
    </div2>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Environment Variables
    </head>
    <p>
      These are the <name>GoldED+</name> specific environment variables:
      <list type=gloss>
        <label>
          <code>GOLDED</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Path to the <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> file. It is recommended to set
          this variable, but don't forget to change it if you move your
          <name>GoldED+</name> setup to a different directory!
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>GEDCMD</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Specifies additional commandline options. Use this if you want to
          specify options, but need to run <name>GoldED</name> without them
          (for example when renaming <code>GOLDED.EXE</code> to
          <code>DBEDIT.EXE</code> in older versions of <name>D'Bridge</name>).
          You can override the environment options with commandline options.
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>GOLDNODE</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          The path where <name>GoldNODE</name> can find a
          <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> to use.
        </item>
      </list>
    </p>
    <p>
      When the using <kw>AREAFILE</kw> feature to read external area
      configuration from other programs, the individual <kw>AREAFILE</kw>'s
      may use specific environment variables to find the files. Please read
      the <ptr target=AREACONFIGURATION> chapter for specific details of each
      supported <kw>AREAFILE</kw>.
    </p>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Batchfile Errorlevels
    </head>
    <p>
      For operation in batch files, <name>GoldED+</name> has a set of
      errorlevel values:
      <table rows=5 cols=2>
        <row>
          <cell>
            032 or higher
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Error exit (check the logfile for details).
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            004
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Echomail entered.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            002
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Netmail entered.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            001
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Local mail entered.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            000
          </cell>
          <cell>
            No errors. No mail entered.
          </cell>
        </row>
      </table>
    </p>
    <p>
      Add values together to find the combined error levels. For example, error
      level 6 is returned if netmail and echomail (2+4) was entered.
    </p>
    <p>
      Example of <code>RUNGOLD.BAT</code> or <code>RUNGOLD.CMD</code> file:<eg>
@echo off
golded.exe
rem ged386.exe
rem ged2.exe
if errorlevel 008 goto error
if errorlevel 007 goto e_n_l
if errorlevel 006 goto e_n__
if errorlevel 005 goto e___l
if errorlevel 004 goto e____
if errorlevel 003 goto __n_l
if errorlevel 002 goto __n__
if errorlevel 001 goto ____l
goto nomail
:error
  echo GoldED+ error exit!
  goto end
:e_n_l
  echo **** New echo, net and local mail entered.
  goto end
:e_n__
  echo **** New echo and netmail entered.
  goto end
:e___l
  echo **** New echo and local mail entered.
  goto end
:e____
  echo **** New echomail entered.
  goto end
:__n_l
  echo **** New net and local mail entered.
  goto end
:__n__
  echo **** New netmail entered.
  goto end
:____l
  echo **** New local mail entered.
  goto end
:nomail
  echo **** No new mail entered.
:end
  echo.
  echo Thank you for using GoldED+! :-)</eg>
    </p>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Nodelist and Userlist Support
    </head>
    <p>
      <name>GoldED+</name> supports the <name>FrontDoor</name>,
      <name>Version 7(+)</name> nodelist indexes as well as a plain
      <code>FIDOUSER.LST</code>. However, if you run software that doesn't use
      any of these formats, you may want to use <name>GoldED+</name>'s own
      nodelist index. This chapter describes how to do that.
    </p>
    <p>
      In order to enable nodelist/userlist lookup and browsing,
      <name>GoldED+</name> needs to use a set of special nodelist index files,
      created by the <name>GoldNODE</name> nodelist compiler.
    </p>
    <p>
      <name>GoldED+</name> normally uses and displays information from the
      nodelist when browsing, but it doesn't really need the nodelist for
      anything. The index files contains sufficient information for lookup and
      browsing of names or addresses. This means that you can delete or pack
      away the nodelists and/or userlists after compiling with
      <name>GoldNODE</name>, if you want to save space and you don't need them
      for anything else.
    </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GoldNODE commandline syntax
      </head>
      <p>
        Invocation: <code>GoldNODE &lsqb;-options&rsqb;
        &lsqb;configfile&rsqb;</code>
      </p>
      <p>
        Depending on used platform <name>GoldNODE</name> could be called
        <code>gndjg</code>, <code>gncyg</code>, <code>gnemx</code>, or
        <code>gnlnx</code>. Available options:
        <list type=gloss>
          <label>
            <code>-C</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Conditional compile.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-D</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Remove duplicate nodes from index.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-F</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Forced compile.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-Q</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Quite compiled. No screen output improves speed.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-S&lt;size&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Set the max size of names. Normally not used.
          </item>
          <label>
            <code>-U&lt;file&gt;</code>
          </label>
          <item>
            Create sorted <code>FIDOUSER.LST</code> userlist file.
          </item>
        </list>
      </p>
      <p>
        The &lsqb;configfile&rsqb; is the path <hi>and</hi> filename of the
        <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> configuration file to read. If no filename is
        given, the path specified with the <code>GOLDNODE</code> or
        <code>GOLDED</code> environment variables are used.
      </p>
      <p>
        The nodelist index files are named <code>GOLDNODE.GX?</code> are are
        placed in the path pointed to by the <kw>NODEPATH</kw> keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
        The <name>V7+</name> is automatically used if your <kw>NODEPATHV7</kw>
        is set correctly. If <name>GoldED+</name> shows <q><code>xxxx /
        NODEX.DTP</code></q> at the bottom of the browser window, the displayed
        information is taken from the raw nodelist entry, taken from the
        <name>V7+</name> index.
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldNODE</name> can handle up to 45 nodelists and 10 userlists.
        <name>GoldNODE</name> can read the german <name>POINTS24</name>-format
        directly!
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi>: If you use the <kw>EXCLUDENODES</kw> and
        <kw>INCLUDENODES</kw> keywords, please note that the
        &lt;addressmask&gt; does <hi>not</hi> accept <q>ALL</q> or <q>WORLD</q>
        etc. You must use wildcard <q>*</q> instead.
      </p>
    </div2>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Routing Diagram Drawing Tool
    </head>
    <p>
      Routing diagram drawing tool intended to analyse files created by
      pressing key defined for <kw>READmakepathreport</kw> action.
      <name>RDDT</name> builds routing tree and display it on the screen if
      requested.
    </p>
    <p>
      Invocation: <code>RDDT &lt;routefile&gt; &lsqb;-options&rsqb;
      &lsqb;address or name&rsqb;</code>
    </p>
    <p>
      Depending on used platform <name>RDDT</name> could be called
      <code>rddtdjg</code>, <code>rddtcyg</code>, <code>rddtemx</code>, or
      <code>rddtlnx</code>. Available options:
      <list type=gloss>
        <label>
          <code>-D</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Reserved for debugging purposes.
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>-I&lt;n&gt;</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Sets indent to <ident>&lt;n&gt;</ident>.
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>-L&lt;link address&gt;</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          This option used to specify yours link address. Requires option
          <code>-N</code>.
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>-N&lt;address&gt;</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Use this option to specify your address.
        </item>
        <label>
          <code>-P</code>
        </label>
        <item>
          Decode path.
        </item>
      </list>
    </p>
    <p>
      Example:<eg>
RDDT path.rpt -n2:5020/604.19 -l2:5020/604 2:5020/604.19 -p</eg>
    </p>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Configuration Control
    </head>
    <p>
      The <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> configuration reader can be directed in
      several ways with special keywords:
    </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Conditionals
      </head>
      <p>
        <emph>
          <code>IF &lt;condition&gt;</code><lb>
          <code>ELIF &lt;condition&gt;</code><lb>
          <code>ELSEIF &lt;condition&gt;</code><lb>
          <code>ELSE</code><lb>
          <code>ENDIF</code>
        </emph>
      </p>
      <p>
        These control keywords can be used to setup sections of configuration
        which enable different sets of keywords depending on which version
        that is used.
      </p>
      <p>
        The following conditions can be used:
        <table rows=8 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>DOS</ident>, <ident>386</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>DPMI32</name> version is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>OS2</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>OS/2</name> version is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>W32</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>Win32</name> version is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>Linux, UNIX</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>Linux</name> version is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>Firebird</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>GoldED</name> 3.xx or <name>GoldED+</name> is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>ASA</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              true, if <name>GoldED-asa</name> or <name>GoldED+</name> is used
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>Yes</ident>, <ident>True</ident>, <ident>On</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              always true
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        Example:<eg>
IF OS2
  EDITOR c:\qedit\os2\q.exe @file -n@line
  EDITSPELLCHECK c:\os2\cmd.exe /c c:\ss\ss.exe @file
ELIF DOS
  EDITOR c:\qedit\dos\q.exe @file -n@line
  EDITSPELLCHECK c:\ss\ss.exe @file
ENDIF</eg>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        IGNORE
      </head>
      <p>
        This tells the configuration file reader to ignore all subsequent lines
        until another <kw>IGNORE</kw> keyword is encountered. Useful for
        testing and quickly switching portions of configuration.
      </p>
      <p>
        However it is probably more useful to use the
        <kw>IF</kw>/<kw>ELIF</kw>/<kw>ENDIF</kw> control keywords.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INCLUDE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This tells the configuration file reader to stop reading the current
        <code>.CFG</code> file, and start reading the
        <ident>&lt;file&gt;</ident> as an extra configuration file, then
        resume reading the previous <code>.CFG</code>. The <kw>INCLUDE</kw>
        filenames are stored and their timestamps are checked when
        <name>GoldED+</name> is started. <kw>INCLUDE</kw> files can be nested
        without limit.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REM
      </head>
      <p>
        Signifies a remark (comment) line. The line is ignored.
      </p>
      <p>
        Any non-alphabetic non-whitespace character at the beginning of a line
        makes the line a comment. Example:<eg>
; This is a comment
% This is a comment
* This is a comment
// This is a comment
/* This is a comment */</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        By tradition, the semicolon is the standard comment character. The
        semicolon (and only that) can also be used to add a comment at the end
        of a configuration line. Example:<eg>
ADDRESS 2:236/77      ; Main address.
AKA     2:236/77.1    ; SysOp point.</eg>
      </p>
    </div2>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  <div1>
    <head>
      Configuration Keyword Reference
    </head>
    <p>
      This is an alphabetical list of all the configuration keywords that can
      be used in the main <name>GoldED+</name> configuration file
      (<code>GOLDED.CFG</code> and any file included from it). It also lists
      and documents the keywords that are specific to the Random System groups.
    </p>
    <p>
      The following special symbols are used in the keyword parameter lists:
      <table rows=6 cols=2>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <ident>()</ident>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Default value.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <ident>&lsqb;&rsqb;</ident>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Optional parameter.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <ident>&lt;&gt;</ident>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Required parameter, not optional.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <q></q>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Parameter must be inclosed in quotes.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <ident>/</ident>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Separates mutually exclusive values.
          </cell>
        </row>
        <row>
          <cell>
            <ident>,</ident>
          </cell>
          <cell>
            Separates possible values for the keyword.
          </cell>
        </row>
      </table>
    </p>
    <p>
      Here is the complete keyword list:
    </p>
    <div2 id=ADDRESS>
      <head>
        ADDRESS &lt;zone:net/node&lsqb;.point&rsqb;&lsqb;@domain&rsqb;&lsqb;,
        pointnet&rsqb;&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Your network address, <name>FidoNet</name>-style. More than one
        address can be specified if you are member of more than one network.
        The keywords <kw>ADDRESS</kw> and <kw>AKA</kw> can be used
        interchangeably.
      </p>
      <p>
        If a pointnet is specified with a point address, <name>GoldED+</name>
        will use the so-called <term>3D</term> addressing method in netmail
        msgs, otherwise the <term>4D</term> method is used. The
        <term>3D</term> method works by putting the address
        <ident>zone:pointnet/point.0</ident> in the msg header, instead of the
        <term>4D</term> format <ident>zone:net/node.point</ident>. Most modern
        mailers and mail processors now supports the <term>4D</term> format,
        but if you are a point, you should always consult your boss about
        which format to use.
      </p>
      <p>
        The optional <ident>@domain</ident> part can be used to specify a
        <term>fifth</term> dimension to the <term>4D</term> address. It is
        normally not necessary to specify a domain. Domains are never shown in
        the header and are not put in the origin line. The only place the
        domain is used/added by <name>GoldED+</name> is in the <gi>MSGID</gi>
        kludge.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
ADDRESS 2:236/77              ; Node address
ADDRESS 2:236/77.1            ; Point address (4D)
ADDRESS 2:236/77.1, 16077     ; Point address (3D)
ADDRESS 2:236/77@fidonet      ; Node address with domain</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ADDRESSBOOKADD &lt;(yes)/no/always&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Setting this keyword to <ident>always</ident> means that
        <name>GoldED+</name> will always add unknown addressees to the
        addressbook when writing new or quoted mails automatically. If you set
        the value to <ident>yes</ident>, <name>GoldED+</name> will add them
        only if it's a netmail/email. <code>ADDRESSBOOKADD NO</code> disables
        this feature entirely.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that <name>GoldED+</name> won't add unknown users if their name match
        one of the following criteria:
        <list type=simple>
          <item>
            it's a <kw>USERNAME</kw>
          </item>
          <item>
            it's a <kw>ROBOTNAME</kw>
          </item>
          <item>
            it's the <kw>WHOTO</kw>
          </item>
          <item>
            it's the mailinglist's sender address
          </item>
          <item>
            it's already an email address
          </item>
          <item>
            address/aka is unknown
          </item>
        </list>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ADDRESSLOOKUPFIRST &lt;MsgID/(Origin)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        By default address of sender taken from <gi>Origin</gi> line. If this
        keyword set to <ident>MsgID</ident> then <name>GoldED+</name> looks
        for correct <abbr>FTN</abbr> address in <gi>MSGID</gi> kludge first.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ADDRESSMACRO &lt;macro&gt;, &lt;name&gt;, &lt;address&gt;
        &lsqb;,<q>subject</q>&rsqb; &lsqb;,attribs&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines a short name for often used addresses. Typical uses are for
        <name>AreaFix</name>/<name>AreaMgr</name>, your uplink, boss, points
        or others you write to often. To use a defined address macro, you just
        type it in the <gi>To:</gi> name field.
      </p>
      <p>
        If (and <hi>only</hi> if) the subject is enclosed in quotes (<q></q>
        or ''), <name>GoldED+</name> will look for message attributes after
        the subject. See the <ptr target=MESSAGEATTRS> for a valid attribute.
        You cannot have quotes within quotes (not the same type anyway).
      </p>
      <p>
        The attribues are <hi>added</hi> to the ones already there, they do
        <hi>not</hi> replace them.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg><![ CDATA [
ADDRESSMACRO afup,AreaFix,2:236/512,"password -q -l",K/S
ADDRESSMACRO ffup,FileFix,2:236/512,password
ADDRESSMACRO odin,Odinn Sorensen,2:236/77,GoldED - What else? :-)]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        A special format is supported for <abbr>UUCP</abbr> or
        <name>Internet</name> gateways. The special format is indicated with a
        <q>@</q> as the first character in the <ident>&lt;name&gt;</ident>:<eg>
ADDRESSMACRO jfu,@fallesen@diku.dk,2:310/33
ADDRESSMACRO dn,@INTERNET/david@csource.oz.au,2:241/999</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        In the first example, <name>GoldED+</name> will put <q>UUCP</q> (the
        default gateway name) in the <gi>To:</gi> message header field and
        <q>To: fallesen@diku.dk</q> on the first line of the message text.
      </p>
      <p>
        In the second example, <name>GoldED+</name> will put <q>INTERNET</q>
        in the <gi>To:</gi> field, and <q>To: david@csource.oz.au</q> in the
        message. The forward slash (<q>/</q>) separates the gateway name from
        the addressee. Any gateway name may be used.
      </p>
      <p>
        The address macros can also be specified in an external file, like the
        <code>NAMES.FD</code> file supported by the <name>FrontDoor</name>
        mailer/editor and <name>Maximus</name> <abbr>BBS</abbr>. See the
        keyword <kw>NAMESFILE</kw> for details. However, you should not use
        the syntax with the attributes in the <code>NAMES.FD</code> file,
        because <name>FrontDoor</name> and <name>Maximus</name> do not know
        this syntax.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ADEPTXBBSPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        The path where you keep your <name>AdeptXBBS</name>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ADEPTXBBSUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        By default <name>GoldED+</name> will use the first record in the
        userfile and lastreads. If you are not the first user in the userfile,
        or are sharing the messagebase with other <name>GoldED+</name> users,
        you must either set this keyword to -1, or use a different number for
        each user. Each user must be defined in the userbase.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKA &lt;zone:net/node&lsqb;.point&rsqb;&lsqb;@domain&rsqb;&lsqb;,
        pointnet&rsqb;&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <kw>AKA</kw> (Also Known As) is an alias for the <ref target=ADDRESS>
        <kw>ADDRESS</kw></ref> keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKAMATCH &lt;match&gt; &lt;aka&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This is an enhancement of the existing aka matching logic, which in
        some circumstances fails to find the correct aka.
      </p>
      <p>
        Example: Lets say that zone 21, 22 and 23 are part of the same
        network, and that you have an aka in zone 22. You would put something
        like this in your setup:<eg>
ADDRESS 2:236/77
AKA     22:33/44</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        In this case, if a mail comes in from zone 23, the normal aka matching
        logic would fail, because it does not try to guess the correct zone.
        To the rescue comes this keyword. You can add this to your setup:<eg>
AKAMATCH 21:*/*.* 22:33/44
AKAMATCH 23:*/*.* 22:33/44</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        It tells <name>GoldED+</name> that any mail from zone 21 or 23 matches
        your zone 22 aka. Note the use of wildcards here. Wildcards are not
        strictly necessary, you could also have just written <q>23:</q> or
        <q>23:*</q>.
      </p>
      <p>
        When an address does not match any <kw>AKAMATCH</kw> definition, the
        normal aka matching logic takes over.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKAMATCHECHO &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will attempt to match one of your akas to the
        address of the person you are replying to in echomail areas.
      </p>
      <p>
        Normally it is not desirable to enable aka matching in echomail,
        because some echoes may be restricted to members of one particular
        network, and an accidental wrong aka matching may attract unwanted
        attention from the moderator or the compulsive flamers :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKAMATCHING &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword is only valid in the Random System groups. When used, it
        overrides any global <kw>AKAMATCHNET</kw>, <kw>AKAMATCHECHO</kw> or
        <kw>AKAMATCHLOCAL</kw> you may have.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKAMATCHLOCAL &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will attempt to match one of your akas
        to the address of the person you are replying to in local areas.
      </p>
      <p>
        It doesn't really make sense to do aka matching in local areas. The
        keyword is just there for completeness.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AKAMATCHNET &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will attempt to match one of your akas
        to the address of the person you are replying to in netmail areas. This
        is especially useful if you are a member in more than one network, and
        therefore have more than one address.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        APP &lt;programname&gt; &lsqb;keyword and/or parameters&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        This is a way for other programs to place configuration data in
        <name>GoldED+</name>'s configuration file.
      </p>
      <p>
        For example, if a program named <name>OtherProg</name> wants to read
        its configuration from <code>GOLDED.CFG</code>, here is how it might
        look:<eg>
APP OtherProg REGKEY xyaxajlsaduoiweqeq
APP OtherProg IRQ 5</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> itself will ignore APP lines just like
        <kw>REM</kw> lines.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREA &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;<q>desc</q>&gt; &lt;msgbase&gt;&lsqb;type&rsqb;
        &lt;location&gt; &lsqb;akano&rsqb; &lsqb;attrs&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword defines a mail area in <name>GoldED+</name>. You need to
        define at least one mail area to run <name>GoldED+</name>, or use the
        <kw>AREAFILE</kw> keyword to read the area setup of your mailer, mail
        processor or <abbr>BBS</abbr>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <table rows=7 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>echoid</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Mail area identifier.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>desc</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Area description in (<q></q>) quotes.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>msgbase</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              O(<name>Opus</name> <code>*.MSG</code>),
              S(<name>FTS-0001</name> <code>*.MSG</code>),
              Q(<name>QuickBBS</name>), R(<name>RemoteAccess</name>),
              H(<name>Hudson</name>), M(<name>Squish</name>),
              J(<name>JAM</name>), E(<name>Ezycom</name>),
              G(<name>Goldbase</name>), P(<name>PCBoard</name>),
              X(<name>AdeptXBBS</name>), W(<name>WildCat!</name>).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>type</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              N(Netmail), E(Echomail), L(Local).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>location</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Directory path/file or Hudson board number.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>akano</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              AKA number (starting from 0)
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>attrs</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              R/O(Read-Only), and/or other attributes.
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
        <q>O(<name>Opus</name>)</q> are <code>*.MSG</code> files with binary
        date/time stamps. <q>S(<name>FTS-0001</name>)</q> are
        <code>*.MSG</code> files, but with zone/point header fields.
        <q>Q(<name>QuickBBS</name>)</q>, <q>R(<name>RemoteAccess</name>)</q>
        and <q>H(<name>Hudson</name>)</q> are synonyms.
        <q>M(<name>Squish</name>)</q> is the <name>Squish</name> format.
        <q>E(<name>Ezycom</name>)</q> is the <name>Ezycom</name> format.
        <q>J(<name>JAM</name>)</q> is the <name>JAM</name> format.
        <q>G(<name>Goldbase</name>)</q> is the <name>Goldbase</name> format.
        <q>P(<name>PCBoard</name>)</q> is the <name>PCBoard</name> format.
        <q>X(<name>AdeptXBBS</name>)</q> is the <name>AdeptXBBS</name> format.
        <q>W(<name>WildCat!</name>)</q> is the <name>WildCat!</name> 4.x
        format.
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> can handle enviroment variables correctly in paths
        specified in connection with this keyword. For example, if a path is
        defined as <code>%MAIL%&bsol;path&bsol;name</code>, and
        <code>SET MAIL=C:&bsol;POINT</code> is in <code>AUTOEXEC.BAT</code> (or
        whatever), then <name>GoldED+</name> translates the path to
        <code>C:&bsol;POINT&bsol;path&bsol;name</code>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that the translation is done at config compile time, so
        if you change the environment variable and haven't changed anything
        else that would cause <name>GoldED+</name> to recompile it's config,
        you must force it with the <code>-F</code> or <code>-FF</code> command
        parameter.
      </p>
      <p>
        It is recommended to use the newer <ref target=AREADEF><kw>AREADEF</kw>
        </ref> keyword, which allows more detailed mail area setup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAAUTOID &lt;(verbose)/long/short&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines how an automatically created echoid should look, when
        <kw>AREAFILE</kw> finds an area without an echoid.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the <ident>verbose</ident> option is used, the echoid is given a
        name similar to the function of the area, such as <gi>NETMAIL</gi>,
        <gi>NET_SENT</gi>, <gi>ECHO_BAD</gi>, <gi>ECHO_DUPES</gi> and so on.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the <ident>long</ident> option is used, the echoids are numbered
        sequentially like this: <gi>NETMAILxxx</gi>, <gi>ECHOMAILxxx</gi> and
        <gi>LOCALxxx</gi>. This is how it worked in older versions of
        <name>GoldED</name> (including 2.42.gamma).
      </p>
      <p>
        When the <ident>short</ident> option is used, the echoids are numbered
        sequentially like this: <gi>NETxxx</gi>, <gi>ECHOxxx</gi> and
        <gi>LOCALxxx</gi>. This is how it worked in <name>GoldED</name>
        2.50.beta until B1016.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAAUTONEXT &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically jump to the first
        marked area in the arealist on startup, and the next marked area after
        exiting from an area you have been reading.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREACATCHUPREAD &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will set all skipped messages to
        <q>read</q> when using <kw>AREAcatchup</kw> in the arealist-screen.
        This implies that <code>HIGHLIGHTUNREAD YES</code> is used, otherwise
        it has no function.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREACOPYADDID &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will insert the control line
        <q>AREA:&lt;OriginalEchoID&gt;</q> at the top of each message that is
        copied or moved. This can be a help when regularly copying messages to
        a <gi>THE_SAFE</gi> type area.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can and should only be used in the Random System groups.
      </p>
      <p>
        It is useful if you copy echomails to some local archive areas. In this
        case <name>GoldED+</name> can add the
        <q>AREA:&lt;OriginalEchoID&gt;</q>-kludge to inform you from where you
        copied the mail to.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREACOPYDIRECT &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, the destination area selection list is bypassed, thereby
        making possible a <q>seamless</q> copy/move to the default destination
        area. The destination area should be set with <kw>AREACOPYTO</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi>: It is probably not a good idea to enable this keyword
        globally.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREACOPYTO>
      <head>
        AREACOPYTO &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Sets the default area for the Copy/Move functions. Typically you could
        set it to a <q>safe/permanent storage</q> type of area, for example a
        <gi>JOKES2KEEP</gi> or <gi>THE_SAFE</gi> area. Note that the Forward
        function uses the <kw>AREAREPLYTO</kw> area instead.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System Group.
      </p>
      <p>
        Related keywords: <ref target=AREAFREQTO><kw>AREAFREQTO</kw></ref>,
        <ref target=AREAREPLYTO><kw>AREAREPLYTO</kw></ref>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREADEF>
      <head>
        AREADEF &lt;setup&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This is newer version of the <kw>AREA</kw> keyword, with more detailed
        parameters.
      </p>
      <p>
        The full syntax is (must be all on one line):
      </p>
      <p>
        <code>AREADEF &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;<![ CDATA ["desc"]]>&gt; &lt;group&gt;
        &lt;type&gt; &lt;msgbase&gt; &lt;path/board&gt; &lt;aka&gt;
        &lt;(attrs)&gt; &lsqb;<![ CDATA ["origin"]]>&rsqb;</code>
        <table rows=9 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>echoid</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Mail area identifier.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident><![ CDATA ["desc"]]></ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Area description in quotes.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>group</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Groupid uppercase letter (A-Z) or 0 if not in a group. Use
              &num;groupnumber to specify group numbers in the 1-999 range,
              for example: <code>&num;117</code>.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>type</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Net, Echo, Local, EMail or News.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>msgbase</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              <name>Opus</name>, <name>FTS1</name>, <name>Hudson</name>,
              <name>Squish</name>, <name>Ezycom</name>, <name>JAM</name>,
              <name>Goldbase</name> or <name>PCBoard</name>.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>path/board</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Area path, boardnumber or base filename.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>aka</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              <abbr>AKA</abbr> address for the area, or <q>.</q> for main
              <abbr>AKA</abbr>.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>(attrs)</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Default attributes in brackets.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident><![ CDATA ["origin"]]></ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Optional default origin in quotes.
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        This looks a lot like the AREA keyword. Additional parameters are
        the <ident>group</ident>, the verbose <ident>type</ident> and
        <ident>msgbase</ident>, the fully specified <ident>aka</ident>
        address, the brackets for the attributes and the optional
        <ident>origin</ident>.
      </p>
      <p>
        Note the possibility of using <q>.</q> to specify the main
        <abbr>AKA</abbr>. This, and the optional default origin, makes it
        simpler to create a common <kw>INCLUDE</kw>'able area configuration
        for several setups with different addresses, for example two people
        sharing the same msgbase.
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> can handle enviroment variables correctly in paths
        specified in connection with this keyword. For example, if a path is
        defined as <code>%MAIL%&bsol;path&bsol;name</code>, and
        <code>SET MAIL=C:&bsol;POINT</code> is in <code>AUTOEXEC.BAT</code> (or
        whatever), then <name>GoldED+</name> translates the path to
        <code>C:&bsol;POINT&bsol;path&bsol;name</code>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that the translation is done at config compile time, so
        if you change the environment variable and haven't changed anything
        else that would cause <name>GoldED+</name> to recompile it's config,
        you must force it with the <code>-F</code> or <code>-FF</code> command
        parameter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREADESC &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;<q>desc</q>&gt; &lsqb;group&rsqb;
        &lsqb;aka&rsqb; &lsqb;(attrs)&rsqb; &lsqb;<q>origin</q>&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        Adds a description and optionally a group letter, <abbr>AKA</abbr>,
        attributes and origin to an <hi>existing</hi> (previously defined)
        area. This is useful if you use an <kw>AREAFILE</kw> that does not
        contain descriptions, groups, akas, attributes or origins.
      </p>
      <p>
        <table rows=6 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>echoid</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Mail area identifier.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident><![ CDATA ["desc"]]></ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Area description in quotes.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>group</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Optional groupid uppercase letter (A-Z) or 0 if not in a group.
              Use &num;groupnumber to specify group numbers in the 1-999 range
              or <q>-</q> to keep the existing groupid. 
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>aka</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Optional <abbr>AKA</abbr> address for the area, or <q>.</q> for
              main <abbr>AKA</abbr>, or <q>-</q> to keep the existing
              <abbr>AKA</abbr>.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>(attrs)</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Optional default attributes in brackets, <q>-</q> to keep the
              existing attributes. Note that if they are specified, they are
              <hi>added</hi> to the default net/echo/local attributes.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident><![ CDATA ["origin"]]></ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Optional default origin in quotes.
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that you cannot skip any of the optional parts in the
        middle, even if you only want to set, say, an origin. Use <q>-</q> to
        keep the existing value for the parts you skip.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAEXCL &lt;echoid mask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        With this keyword, you can define the echoids of areas which should be
        ignored by <name>GoldED+</name> (thereby leaving them out of the
        arealist). This is normally used in connection with <kw>AREAFILE</kw>,
        to exclude areas you are not interested in reading.
        <name>DOS</name>/<name>4DOS</name>-style wildcards (* and ?) can be
        used in the echoid mask.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREAEXCL *        ; Excludes all areas.
AREAEXCL *INTER*  ; Excludes all areas containing INTER anywhere in the
                  ; echoid.
AREAEXCL INT*.*   ; Excludes all areas beginning with INT and
                  ; containing a dot anywhere in the echoid.</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        You can use the <kw>AREAINCL</kw> keyword to reinclude areas which have
        been excluded with <kw>AREAEXCL</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that this keyword must be placed before any of
        <kw>AREA</kw>, <kw>AREADEF</kw> or <kw>AREAFILE</kw> keywords.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAFILE &lt;type&gt; &lsqb;path/file&rsqb; &lsqb;switches&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> can read the area setup of many popular mailers,
        mail processors and <abbr>BBS</abbr>'es, thereby making it much easier
        and simpler to configure <name>GoldED+</name> for the mail areas you
        receive, by eliminating the need to write <kw>AREA</kw> lines for all
        or most of your areas.
      </p>
      <p>
        <table rows=3 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>type</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Name of the program.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>path/file</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Filename or path to the area setup files.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>switches</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Msgbase specific switches.
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        For most programs, <name>GoldED+</name> can automatically find the path
        or filename using environment variables. By default,
        <name>GoldED+</name> will look for the area setup files in the
        <kw>AREAPATH</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        There are switches for sorting the areas, and for turning off an
        update-check when <name>GoldED+</name> starts up.
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> can handle enviroment variables correctly in paths
        specified in connection with this keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword is explained in greater detail in the
        <ptr target=AREACONFIGURATION> chapter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAFILEGROUPS &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        In some <kw>AREAFILE</kw> setups, you can groups the areas using single
        letters (A-Z) or numbers (&num;1-999). If this keyword is enabled,
        <name>GoldED+</name> will use the area groupid instead of the area
        echoid when gathering area specific information from the Random System.
      </p>
      <p>
        See <ptr target=RANDOMSYSTEM> chapter for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAFREQDIRECT &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, the destination area selection list is bypassed, thereby
        making possible a <q>seamless</q> file request in the default
        destination area. The destination area should be set with
        <kw>AREAFREQTO</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>TIP:</hi> If you (like most) only have one mailer netmail area,
        you should enable the <kw>AREAFREQDIRECT</kw> keyword globally for
        simpler file requests.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREAFREQTO>
      <head>
        AREAFREQTO &lt;echoid(first netmail area)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Sets the default area for the filerequest function. You should set
        this to the netmail area where you normally put the filerequest
        messages.
      </p>
      <p>
        Note that if <kw>AREAFREQTO</kw> is not specified, it defaults to the
        first netmail area found.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
        Related keywords: <ref target=AREACOPYTO><kw>AREACOPYTO</kw></ref>,
        <ref target=AREAREPLYTO><kw>AREAREPLYTO</kw></ref>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAINCL &lt;echoid mask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        With this keyword, you can define the echoids of areas which should be
        reincluded by <name>GoldED+</name>, if they have been excluded with the
        <kw>AREAEXCL</kw> keyword. <name>DOS</name>/<name>4DOS</name>-style
        wildcards (* and ?) can be used in the echoid mask.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREAINCL *        ; Includes all areas.
AREAINCL *INTER*  ; Includes all areas containing INTER anywhere in the
                  ; echoid.
AREAINCL INT*.*   ; Includes all areas beginning with INT and
                  ; containing a dot anywhere in the echoid.</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        You can use the <kw>AREAINCL</kw> keyword to reinclude areas which have
        been excluded with <kw>AREAEXCL</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi> that this keyword must be placed before any of
        <kw>AREA</kw>, <kw>AREADEF</kw> or <kw>AREAFILE</kw> keywords.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREAISEMAIL>
      <head>
        AREAISEMAIL &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Wildcards * and ? are allowed. These keyword is designed to mark areas
        which are read from an <kw>AREAFILE</kw> as <name>Internet</name>
        e-mail. This may be necessary in some cases to enable the
        <name>Internet</name> specific features without having to manually
        define all <name>Internet</name> areas.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREAISEMAIL alt.*, rec.*, sci.*</eg>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAISNEWS &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        For <name>Internet</name> news areas. See <ref target=AREAISEMAIL>
        <kw>AREAISEMAIL</kw></ref> for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAKEEPLAST &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will write the file
        <code>GOLDLAST.LST</code> in the <code>GOLDPATH</code> at exit and read
        it back when run next time. The contents of the file is a list of
        lastread information for each area as it was at last scan.
      </p>
      <p>
        This feature is helpful when you know that there have not been tossed
        new mail and don't want to wait for a full msgbase scan. Now you can
        just hit ESC at the startup screen to abort the area scan and
        <name>GoldED+</name> will put up the lastread info from the previous
        session.
      </p>
      <p>
        It also makes the <q>new mail since last scan</q> feature even better,
        because the new mail marker now shows which areas that have new mail
        since last session even when scanning areas at startup.
      </p>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> only writes the <code>GOLDLAST.LST</code> file at
        exit if it survived the initial startup scan.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTECHOMAX &lt;size=0&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Allows you to specify a fixed or dynamically sized width of the
        <q>EchoID</q> column in the arealist.
      </p>
      <p>
        If a negative value is specified, the width will be the that of the
        widest echoid in the arealist plus the negative value. This might be
        useful if some long-name echoes have uninteresting ends, such as
        <q>VERYLONGECHOID_R23.PUB</q> (could benefit from a <ident>size</ident>
        of -7). There is currently no provision for long echoids with common
        beginning.
      </p>
      <p>
        The arealist can dynamically resize the <q>EchoID</q> and
        <q>Description</q> columns, so that long echoids are not cut off. The
        sizing of the <q>EchoID</q> column is done against the
        <q>Description</q> column, which thereby looses or gains width.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTFORMAT &lt;string=<q>AM D CPUN E G </q>&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        The arealist column layout is configurable. This keyword allows you to
        change the layout to whatever you like.
      </p>
      <p>
        The default is:<eg><![ CDATA [
AREALISTFORMAT "AM D CPUN E G "]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        This produces the usual layout. Here is another:<eg><![ CDATA [
AREALISTFORMAT "ME D CPUN G "]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        This one puts the echoid in front and eliminates the area numbers.
      </p>
      <p>
        The letters stand for the following:
        <table rows=10 cols=3>
          <row>
            <cell>
              Letter
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Meaning
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Default width
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>A</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Area number
            </cell>
            <cell>
              4
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>M</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Marked
            </cell>
            <cell>
              1
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>D</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Description
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Dynamic
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>C</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Number of messages
            </cell>
            <cell>
              6
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>P</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Personal mail mark ('+')
            </cell>
            <cell>
              1
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>U</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Number of unread/new messages
            </cell>
            <cell>
              6
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>N</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Changed since last scan mark (<q>*</q>)
            </cell>
            <cell>
              1
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>E</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Echoid
            </cell>
            <cell>
              AREALISTECHOMAX
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              <ident>G</ident>
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Groupid
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Dynamic: 0, 1 or 3
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        You can also specify widths if you don't like the defaults:
        <eg><![ CDATA [
AREALISTFORMAT "AM D C4PU4N E G "]]></eg>
        In this example, the <q>Msgs</q> and <q>New</q> columns are put back
        to the size they had in <q>old days</q>.
      </p>
      <p>
        If you leave out a letter, that column will not be shown.
      </p>
      <p>
        Use only the defined letters. Use spaces to specify required space
        between columns. Use only positive numbers for widths. Failure to
        obey these rules may cause undocumented behaviour.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTGROUPID &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, the arealist screen will display the groupid letters, if
        any, in a column to the right of the <q>EchoID</q> column. If a groupid
        is not a letter in the range A-Z (a value in the range
        &num;65-&num;90), the groupid is not shown.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTNOS &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will display the board numbers of
        <name>Hudson</name> areas in the arealist instead of the default
        sequential numbers.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTPAGEBAR &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Enables or disables a pagebar (scrollbar) in the arealist.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTSCAN &lt;<q>L menu text</q>&gt;
        &lsqb;path&rsqb;&lt;filename&gt; &lsqb;-delete&rsqb;&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword allows you to define additional menu items for the
        arealist scanning menus (&lt;Alt-S&gt; or &lt;Alt-P&gt;).
      </p>
      <p>
        The first two characters of the menu text are the <q>hotkey</q> letter
        that will be highlighted in the menu text, plus a space.
      </p>
      <p>
        The filename specifies a plain text file, with the echoids (wildcards
        allowed) of the areas you want to scan when the menu item is selected.
        There can be several echoids on each line in the file. If no path is
        given, the file is loaded from the <code>GOLDPATH</code>.
      </p>
      <p>
        The <ident>-delete</ident> option will cause <name>GoldED+</name> to
        delete the list file after scanning the areas in it. For example, if
        your mail processor generates a list of the areas that it tossed new
        mail to, you could add the list as a menu item on the scanning menu and
        use it to scan only those areas with new mail. Note that some mail
        processors automatically delete their list after using it for
        replylinking. You may want to do some creative stuff with batchfiles to
        grab a copy.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg><![ CDATA [
AREALISTSCAN "g Scan Newsgroups" NEWSGRPS.LST
AREALISTSCAN "L Scan Latest" R:&bsol;GECHO&bsol;IMPORT.ALL -delete]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        <eg>
=== Cut, NEWSGRPS.LST ===
ALT.*, COMP.*, MISC.*, NEWS.*
REC.*, SOC.*, SCI.*, TALK.*
=== Cut ===</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        <eg>
=== Cut from an import batchfile ===
gecho mgr toss pack -tossbad
if exist import.jam type import.jam &gt;&gt;import.all
if exist import.hmb type import.hmb &gt;&gt;import.all
if exist import.sdm type import.sdm &gt;&gt;import.all
mbutil link -clean
=== Cut ===</eg>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREALISTSORT>
      <head>
        AREALISTSORT &lt;sortspec=<q>FYTUE</q>&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword defines how the area list should be sorted. You can
        override the default setting from the commandline with the
        <code>-S</code> switch.
      </p>
      <p>
        The &lt;sortspec&gt; can be composed of the following types:
        <table rows=16 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              A
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by aka.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              B
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by board number.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              D
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by description.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              E
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by echoid.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              F
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sorts all "fuzzy search" matches first.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              G
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by group (if any).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              M
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sorts all marked areas first.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              O
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by original order.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              P
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by personal mail.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              T
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by type (in the order net, echo, local).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              U
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by unread messages (try it&excl;).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              X
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by msgbase type.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              Y
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sorts all areas with "new" mail first.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              Z
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Sort by msgbase path.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              -
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Descending sort (largest first).
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              +
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Ascending sort (smallest first) (default).
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
      <p>
        In practice <q>M</q> and <q>Y</q> will usually give the same result,
        because <name>GoldED+</name> automatically marks scanned areas if they
        contain new mail.
      </p>
      <p>
        Example:<eg>
AREALISTSORT T-U+E</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        This sorts ascending by type, descending by unread (that is, areas with
        the most unread messages comes first) and ascending by echoid (in case
        two areas have the same number of unread msgs).
      </p>
      <p>
        By default no sorting is done, and all areas are listed in the order
        they were found (unless sorting was specified with an <kw>AREAFILE</kw>
        keyword). However, the configuration examples all make use of the
        unread sorting type. This is a very useful way of sorting areas,
        because it keeps all the areas with mail together.
      </p>
      <p>
        Personally I now sort my areas like this: <q>AREALISTSORT FYTUE</q>.
        This puts all areas with new mail first, then sorts these into type
        (net/echo/local), then into number of new msgs and finally into echoid.
        The <q>F</q> at the start enables fuzzy match sorting, which is very
        handy when looking for an echoid containing a particular word. Let's
        say I want a list of all GOLDED echoes. I can now simply type
        <q>GOLDED</q> and then the arealist automatically sorts itself so that
        all echoes with an echoid containing <q>GOLDED</q> comes first :-)
      </p>
      <p>
        The <q>X</q> sort type sorts areas according to msgbase type, in the
        following order: <name>Hudson</name>, <name>Goldbase</name>,
        <name>JAM</name>, <name>Squish</name>, <name>OPUS</name>
        <code>*.MSG</code>, <name>FTS-1</name> <code>*.MSG</code>,
        <name>Ezycom</name>, <name>PCBoard</name>.
      </p>
      <p>
        The <q>X</q> and <q>Z</q> sort types were implemented for internal use,
        to optimize area scanning speed. When scanning areas,
        <name>GoldED+</name> starts by sorting the arealist using the sortspec
        defined with the <kw>AREASCANSORT</kw> keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREALISTTYPE &lt;(new)/last&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the contents of the 4th column (the one after the <q>Total</q>
        column).
        <table rows=2 cols=2>
          <row>
            <cell>
              New
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Displays the amount of new (unread) msgs.
            </cell>
          </row>
          <row>
            <cell>
              Last
            </cell>
            <cell>
              Displays the number of the last msg read.
            </cell>
          </row>
        </table>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If you use the <kw>AREAFILE</kw> keyword, <name>GoldED+</name> might
        need to know where the area setup files are located. This keyword
        specifies where they are found, if not current directory.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE:</hi> Most <kw>AREAFILE</kw> types can find the path using the
        environment variable(s) specific for the program(s). Such environment
        variables (or a path specified with the <kw>AREAFILE</kw> definition)
        always overrides the <kw>AREAPATH</kw>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAPMSCAN &lt;echoid mask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword defines areas which will be automatically scanned for
        personal mail when starting <name>GoldED+</name>.
        <name>DOS</name>/<name>4DOS</name>-style wildcards (* and ?) can be
        used in the echoid mask.
      <p>
      </p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREAPMSCAN *       ; Scan all areas.
AREAPMSCAN *INTER* ; Scan all areas containing INTER anywhere in the
                   ; echoid
AREAPMSCAN INT*.*  ; Scan all areas beginning with INT and
                   ; containing a dot anywhere in the echoid</eg>
      <p>
      </p>
        It is recommended to have an <q>AREAPMSCAN *</q> to scan all areas at
        startup. If you don't want to wait for the scan to complete, you can
        abort the scan by pressing &lt;ESC&gt; during startup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAPMSCANEXCL &lt;echoid or wildcards&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        With this keyword you can prevent areas from being scanned with
        <kw>AREAPMSCAN</kw> on startup. This is good if you use
        <q>AREAPMSCAN *</q>, but have some big areas which slows it down.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAPMSCANINCL &lt;echoid or wildcards&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Here you can specify areas to be scanned with <kw>AREAPMSCAN</kw> even
        if they were excluded with <kw>AREAPMSCANEXCL</kw>. Useful for partial
        reversal of wildcard specs in the excludes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAREADONLY &lt;(soft)/hard&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If this keyword is set to <ident>hard</ident>, it is no longer possible
        to enter/reply/change messages in areas marked read-only with the R/O
        area attribute. The <ident>soft</ident> setting uses a menu to ask
        permission as in the previous versions. This option is designed for
        those who setup a system for new computer users who might be confused
        enough to enter a message in a read-only area despite the warning menu.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREARENAME &lt;from echoid&gt; &lt;to echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Renames one echoid to another. The feature is meant to be used in
        connection with <kw>AREAFILE</kw>, where some types do not store
        echoids with the areas (and <name>GoldED+</name> then automatically
        gives them unique echoids).
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREARENAME NET001 NETMAIL
AREARENAME ECHO001 BAD_MSGS
AREARENAME LOCAL001 BBS.USERS</eg>
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAREPLYDIRECT &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, the destination area selection list is bypassed, thereby
        making possible a <q>seamless</q> reply/forward to the default
        destination area. The destination area should be set with
        <kw>AREAREPLYTO</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>TIP:</hi> If you run a utility or have a mail processor which
        copies personal mail to a separate area and puts an <q>AREA:</q> line
        at the top of the messages, you should create a random system group for
        the area and enable <kw>AREAREPLYDIRECT</kw> in it:<eg>
Group ECHO_PERSONAL
  AreaReplyDirect yes</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        With such a setup, <name>GoldED+</name> replies directly to the area
        found in the <q>AREA:</q> line, so that you do not have to explicitly
        use the &lt;Alt-N&gt; command to reply in the original area, because
        <name>GoldED+</name> automatically stores the reply in the appropiate
        area. However, if you use &lt;ALT-N&gt;, you can select a diffrent area
        (i.e. Netmail).
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE:</hi> It is probably not a good idea to enable this keyword
        globally.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREAREPLYTO>
      <head>
        AREAREPLYTO &lt;echoid=first netmail area&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Sets the default area for the <kw>READmovequotemsg</kw>,
        <kw>READmovecommentmsg</kw> and Forward functions. The default area is
        the first netmail area found in your setup. You should check if
        <name>GoldED+</name> found the correct one if you have more than one.
        If you find yourself often forwarding or quoting from one area to
        another, it might be a good idea to setup a Random System group and put
        in this keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
        Example:<eg>
Group GOLDED
  AreaReplyto GOLDED.BETA
EndGroup</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
        Related keywords: <kw>AREACOPYTO</kw>, <kw>AREAFREQTO</kw>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREASCAN &lt;echoid mask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword defines areas which will be automatically scanned when
        starting <name>GoldED+</name>. <name>DOS</name>/<name>4DOS</name>-style
        wildcards (* and ?) can be used in the echoid mask.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:<eg>
AREASCAN *       ; Scan all areas.
AREASCAN *INTER* ; Scan all areas containing INTER anywhere in
                 ; the echoid.
AREASCAN INT*.*  ; Scan all areas beginning with INT and
                 ; containing a dot anywhere in the echoid.</eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        It is recommended to have an <q>AREASCAN *</q> to scan all areas at
        startup. If you don't want to wait for the scan to complete, you can
        abort the scan by pressing &lt;ESC&gt; during startup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREASCANEXCL &lt;echoid or wildcards&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        With this keyword you can prevent areas from being scanned with
        <kw>AREASCAN</kw> on startup. This is good if you use
        <q>AREASCAN *</q>, but have some big areas which slows it down.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREASCANINCL &lt;echoid or wildcards&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Here you can specify areas to be scanned with <kw>AREASCAN</kw> even if
        they were excluded with <kw>AREASCANEXCL</kw>. Useful for partial
        reversal of wildcard specs in the excludes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREASCANSORT &lt;sortspec=XZBE&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        When scanning areas, <name>GoldED+</name> can optimize area scanning
        speed if it first sorts the arealist in an order so that each msgbase
        format is scanned in sequence rather than on semi-random order.
      </p>
      <p>
        If you don't like this or don't need it, you can define your own sort
        order.
      </p>
      <p>
        See the <kw>AREALISTSORT</kw> keyword for the definition of the
        sortspecs.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREASEP &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;"desc"&gt; &lt;group&gt; &lt;type&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        You can define area separation lines between groups or areatypes. The
        syntax is nearly the same as the <kw>AREADEF</kw> keyword except for
        the fields after &lt;type&gt;.
      </p>
      <p>
        Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
        These five are area separation lines that are designed to list before
        each type of area. This works well when <kw>AREALISTSORT</kw> has
        <ident>T</ident> (for type) as one of the primary sort orders.
      </p>
      <p>Example:<eg><![ CDATA [
AREASEP &excl;NET   "Netmail areas"   0 Net
AREASEP &excl;EMAIL "E-mail areas"    0 EMail
AREASEP &excl;ECHO  "Echomail areas"  0 Echo
AREASEP &excl;NEWS  "Newsgroup areas" 0 News
AREASEP &excl;LOCAL "Local areas"     0 Local]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        These can be used to separate areas with group letters (it will also
        work with group numbers like &num;117). Areas should then be sorted
        primarily on the group.
      </p>
      <p>Example:<eg><![ CDATA [
AREASEP &excl;A "Group A" A Local
AREASEP &excl;B "Group B" B Local
AREASEP &excl;C "Group C" C Local]]></eg>
      </p>
      <p>
        In these examples, I put a <q>&excl;</q> in front of the echoid to make
        sure it is sorted ahead of the areas. This may not be necessary in all
        cases, depending on the sort order in effect. If you do put
        <q>&excl;</q> in front of the echoid, have fuzzy sorting as the primary
        sort order, and type <q>&excl;</q> in the fuzzy search, you'll get the
        interesting effect that all area separation lines collect themselves at
        the top :-)
      </p>
      <p>
        The area separation lines are implemented like a special kind of area,
        and are therefore sorted in the arealist just as if they were actual
        areas. This is also the reason why you can place the cursor bar on the
        separation lines. Originally I wanted to make the cursor skip the
        separation lines, but I think I'll leave it as it is, because it can be
        useful sometimes, especially when using the fuzzy feature to quickly go
        to an area, for example, type <q>&excl;C</q> to quickly move down to
        the group C areas (using the group sorted example).
      </p>
      <p>
        When configuring area separation lines, be careful to consider the
        <kw>AREALISTSORT</kw>, so that the lines are sorted into the positions
        you want. If you don't sort areas, you must make sure that the
        <kw>AREASEP</kw> definitions are placed correctly in your
        <code>GOLDED.CFG</code> or <code>GOLDAREA.CFG</code>, that is,
        between/before <kw>AREADEF</kw> lines.
      </p>
      <p>
        You will note that the separation lines are not fully connected into
        the left and right edges. This is both by design and for practical
        reasons (easier to implement), not a bug.
      </p>
      <p>
        Currently the descriptions are hardcoded to the natural location in the
        description column.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2 id=AREASTART>
      <head>
        AREASTART &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Normally <name>GoldED+</name> starts by displaying the arealist, to let
        you select which area you want to read. If this keyword is defined, the
        arealist is bypassed and <name>GoldED+</name> starts directly in the
        configured area. You can override <kw>AREASTART</kw> with the
        <code>-E</code> commandline switch.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREATYPEORDER &lt;type1=Net&gt; &lt;type2=EMail&gt; &lt;type3=Echo&gt;
        &lt;type4=News&gt; &lt;type5=Local&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This keyword allows you to change the ordering of the
        <ident>Net</ident>, <ident>Echo</ident>, <ident>Local</ident>,
        <ident>EMail</ident> and <ident>News</ident> types when sorted by
        <kw>AREALISTSORT</kw>.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword was added to give greater flexibility to the
        <kw>AREASEP</kw> feature.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREAYOUWROTETO &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>GoldED+</name> automatically copies mails written by yourself to
        the given area when saving a new mail. <name>GoldED+</name> will also
        add an <gi>AREA</gi> kludge so you can see from which area the mail
        originally is copied from.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword can be used globally and in Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ASKDELORIG &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, you will be asked if the message you just replied to should
        be deleted. Otherwise it is left untouched.
      </p>
      <p>
        This keyword is only functional in netmail and local areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTACHPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default &lt;path&gt; when selecting files for attachement.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSATTACH &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the attributes that are <hi>added</hi> to the existing
        attributes of a message when the file attach attribute is toggled on.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSCC &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of Carbon Copy messages. <abbr>CC</abbr>
        attributes are <hi>added</hi> to the existing attributes of the
        original message. Usually used to add the <q>Kill/Sent</q> attribute.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSCFM &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of the Confirmation Receipt message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSECHO &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of messages entered in echomail areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSEMAIL &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of messages entered in e-mail areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSFRQ &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the attributes to use for messages generated with the file
        request function. Suggested attributes are: <gi>PVT</gi> <gi>K/S</gi>
        <gi>CRA</gi>. The <gi>FRQ</gi> and <gi>LOC</gi> attributes are added
        automatically.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSLOCAL &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of messages entered in local areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSNET &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of messages entered in netmail areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBSNEWS &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes of messages entered in news groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ATTRIBUTES &lt;attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defines the default attributes for area members of the current Random
        System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        BEEPCOMMENT &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will make a noise when the cursor in
        the internal editor is moved across a word defined with the
        <kw>EDITCOMMENT</kw> keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        BEEPLOCALMSG &lt;yes/(no)&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will make a noise if it finds a msg
        with the <q>Local</q> (<gi>LOC</gi>) attributes set. This can be useful
        for the sysop who wants to monitor the msgs entered by users on his/her
        <abbr>BBS</abbr>.
      </p>
      <p>
        A related keyword is <kw>DISPLOCALHIGH</kw>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        BEEPNOISES &lt;(yes)/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> makes noises when it wants attention.
      </p>
      <p>
        <hi>NOTE</hi>: This is the <q>master switch</q> for all noises in
        <name>GoldED+</name>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        BEEPYOURMAIL &lt;(yes)/no/always&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        If set to <ident>Yes</ident>, <name>GoldED+</name> will make a noise if
        it finds a non-received message to one of your <kw>USERNAME</kw>'s. If
        set to <ident>Always</ident>, <name>GoldED+</name> will make the noise
        even if it has already been marked as received.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CARBONCOPYLIST &lt;listspec=Names&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This specifies the format of the Carbon Copy list, as it will look
        after processing. You can also change the format in the <abbr>CC</abbr>
        menu before processing.
      </p>
      <p>
        The &lt;listspec&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      Keep      Keep the list as entered.
      Names     Convert list to "CC: Name, Name, Name.." format.
      Visible   Convert list to "CC: Name Address" format.
      Hidden    Convert list to "^aCC: Name Address" format.
      Remove    Remove the list completely.
      </p>
      <p>
        More details can be found in the Carbon Copy and Crossposting chapter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        COLOR &lt;colorspec&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Using this keyword you can define or redefine all the colors used
    in <name>GoldED+</name>. See the Color Configuration chapter for details.
      </p>
      <p>
    A complete color setup consists of a quite a lot of <kw>COLOR</kw>
    keywords, and it is normal practice to put them in a separate .CFG
    file and use the <kw>INCLUDE</kw> keyword to let <name>GoldED+</name> read it. The COLORS
    archive contains a number of example color/mono setups. Try them
    out if you think the default colors stink :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        COLORSET &lt;Normal/Intense/Mono&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Normal or Mono)
      </p>
      <p>
    Three color setups are built-in, and can be selected with this
    keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    The Normal set is the default when a color display adapter is
    detected. The Normal set has all black background, with bright
    neon-like colors for the window frames. Some hate it, some love
    it. :-)
      </p>
      <p>
    The Intense set switches off the "blink" attribute, thereby
    enabling the use of intense (bright) colors for the background
    ("paper") colors as well as the foreground ("ink") colors. This is
    used in the Intense set to make a bright white background, sort of
    like the standard Windows 3.0 setup.
      </p>
      <p>
    The Mono set is the default when a monochrome adapter is detected.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CONFIRMFILE &lt;filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (GOLDED.CFM)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> supports the Confirmation Receipt attribute, as used in
    FrontDoor 2.xx with the FLAGS CFM kludge. If <name>GoldED+</name> finds an
    unreceived message to one of your <kw>USERNAME</kw>'s with the CFM (or the
    RRQ Return Receipt Request) attribute set, it generates an
    automatic response message from the content of the <kw>CONFIRMFILE</kw>. In
    the file you can use many of the template tokens to personalize
    the automatic message. You can specify the default attributes for
    the message with the <kw>ATTRIBSCFM</kw> keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    Template tokens are explained in the Message Template chapter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CONFIRMRESPONSE &lt;yes/no/ask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (ask)
      </p>
      <p>
    An unreceived message to you with the CFM attribute set tells
    <name>GoldED+</name> that the sender has requested a receipt that you have read
    the message. With this keyword you tell <name>GoldED+</name> what to do when
    such a message is found. Either always automatically generate the
    receipt ("yes"), always ignore the requests ("no") or ask you in
    each case. Older versions always generated receipts.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        COOKIEPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to the GOLDPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the default path for the @random template token.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CROSSPOSTLIST &lt;listspec&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Verbose)
      </p>
      <p>
    This specifies the format of the Crosspost list, as it will look
    after processing.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;listspec&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      None      Crosspost without a list in the msgs.
      Verbose   Change the list to lines of "* Crossposted in ..."
      Yes       Also adds "* Crossposted in ...", but expands echolist
                in line rather than in column.
      Raw       Keep the crosspost list as you entered it.
      </p>
      <p>
    More details can be found in the Carbon Copy and Crossposting
    chapter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFO &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want a tearline and/or origin in your messages.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can ONLY be used in Random System groups.
      </p>
      <p>
    This may be helpful for QWK users, who can now create a group for
    the QWK areas and put "CTRLINFO No" in it.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFOECHO &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Tearline Origin)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want a tearline and/or origin in your echomail
    messages. They will be added by your echomail processor if you
    disable them here.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      CTRLINFOECHO Tearline Origin  ; Add both tearline and origin.
      CTRLINFOECHO Tearline         ; Add only a tearline.
      CTRLINFOECHO Origin           ; Add only an origin.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If you use the last example, your mail processor may get
    confused. However, most modern mail processors *can* handle msgs
    without a tearline.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFOEMAIL &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (No)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want a tearline and/or origin in your Internet
    e-mail messages. This is not recommended.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFOLOCAL &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (No)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want tearline and origin in your messages in
    local areas. In local areas, the tearline and origin is normally
    never required but can be used for cosmetic purposes.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      CTRLINFOLOCAL Tearline Origin  ; Add both tearline and origin.
      CTRLINFOLOCAL Tearline         ; Add only a tearline.
      CTRLINFOLOCAL Origin           ; Add only an origin.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFONET &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Tearline)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want tearline and origin in your netmail
    messages. In netmail areas, the tearline and origin is normally
    never required but can be used for cosmetic purposes.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      CTRLINFONET Tearline Origin  ; Add both tearline and origin.
      CTRLINFONET Tearline         ; Add only a tearline.
      CTRLINFONET Origin           ; Add only an origin.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CTRLINFONEWS &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (No)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want a tearline and/or origin in your Internet
    news articles. This is not recommended.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPAREANO &lt;yes/no/always&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword specifies if <name>GoldED+</name> should display the area number on
    the top line in the reader.
      </p>
      <p>
      Yes     Display it only if non-zero.
      No      Never display it.
      Always  Always display the area number.
      </p>
      <p>
    The area number is the same as that displayed in the leftmost
    column in the arealist. This also means that the number displayed
    can be either the "real" area number (Hudson/Goldbase/Ezycom
    board) or the standard sequential number (toggleable with Alt-B in
    the arealist).
      </p>
      <p>
    The number is displayed in square brackets to the left of the area
    description. I am not sure that is the best place for it - things
    are getting kinda crowded up there... Suggestions are welcome.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPATTACHSIZE &lt;bytes/kbytes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (kbytes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Controls how the size of attached files is displayed in the
    header. Either the exact byte size, the rounded kbyte size, or not
    displayed at all. If the kbytes setting is chosen, the value is
    rounded according to the following formula: kbytes = (bytes + 512)
    / 1024. So a 600 bytes file is rounded up to "1k", but a 500 bytes
    file is rounded down to "0k".
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPAUTONEXT &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically jump to the next message
    when entering an area.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPHDRDATESET &lt;pos&gt; &lt;len&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (-20 20)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the position and length of the date field in the header
    display. If a negative value is specified, that value is added to
    the current display width.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPHDRNAMESET &lt;pos&gt; &lt;len&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (8 36)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the position and length of the from/to name field in the
    header display. If a negative value is specified, that value is
    added to the current display width.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPHDRNODESET &lt;pos&gt; &lt;len&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (44 16)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specfies the position and length of the from/to node address field
    in the header display. If a negative value is specified, that
    value is added to the current display width.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: The attributes display moves along with the <kw>DISPHDRNODESET</kw>
    values.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPLISTCURSOR &lt;top/neartop/middle/nearbottom/bottom&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (middle)
      </p>
      <p>
    Selects the starting position of selection bar in the message list
    and nodelist browsers.
      </p>
      <p>
    Top             At the top if possible.
    NearTop         At top + 1/3 if possible.
    Middle          At middle of possible.
    NearBottom      At bottom - 1/3.
    Bottom          At bottom.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPLISTWRAP &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Enables/disables wrap-around when the selection bar in the main
    list/browser windows reaches the top or bottom.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPLOCALHIGH &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will display the FROM name with the highlight
    color, if a message has the Local (LOC) attribute set.
      </p>
      <p>
    A related keyword is <kw>BEEPLOCALMSG</kw>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPMARGIN &lt;width&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    This is the right margin (display width) used for message display.
    If the value is 0 (zero), <name>GoldED+</name> will default to the current
    screen width. If a negative value is specified, that value will be
    added to the current screen width (thereby decreasing the display
    width relative to the screen width).
      </p>
      <p>
    If the <kw>DISPPAGEBAR</kw> keyword is enabled, the right margin is
    automatically decreased by one char.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPMSGSIZE &lt;bytes/kbytes/lines/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (bytes)
      </p>
      <p>
    When enabled, this keyword displays the msgbody size in bytes,
    kbytes or lines in the lower left side of the header. The size
    displayed is for the message body text only, the header and
    nul-terminator (and anything that may lurk beyond it) is excluded
    from the calculation.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: This feature currently only works when _reading_ msgs. While
    editing a msg in the internal editor, this feature is disabled -
    however, the size will be displayed when you are in the Save msg
    menu (if <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw> is enabled).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPPAGEBAR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, a "pagebar" (similar to the scrollbar in GUI's) will
    appear on the right margin, telling you about the relative size
    and position in the message you are reading. It is only displayed
    if a message is longer than a screenful.
      </p>
      <p>
    The pagebar automatically decreases the <kw>DISPMARGIN</kw> by one char.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPREALMSGNO &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> can display the message numbers in two ways:
      </p>
      <p>
    1.   As the actual (real) msg numbers.
    2.   As "relative" numbers, which are always sequential from msg
         number 1.
      </p>
      <p>
    Normally the relative numbers are best, because they reflect the
    actual number of msgs in the system.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPSOFTCR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will treat the so-called Soft-CR character
    (ASCII 141, HEX 8D) just like any other displayable character,
    instead of ignoring it like linefeed chars (LF). Note that by
    enabling this feature, you _disable_ the character translation
    feature that uses the Soft-CR as an escape character. This feature
    was added to help users in countries which use the Soft-CR
    character for other purposes like 2-byte characters in Japan.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: The Ezycom msgbase format requires the Soft-CR to terminate
    each line. Therefore this feature is unlikely to be useful to
    Ezycom sysops.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPSTATUSLINE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to NO, the statusline with memory meter, clock etc. will be
    disabled. This option has been implemented as a temporary help for
    visually impaired users. More extensive help may be implemented in
    future versions.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DISPTABSIZE &lt;chars&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (4)
      </p>
      <p>
    The tab size (number of spaces) used when displaying the tab
    (ASCII 9) character, and when pressing &lt;Tab&gt; in the internal
    editor.
      </p>
      <p>
    If you use an external editor, you should switch it to create
    spaces instead of tabs, because tabs are technically not allowed
    in FidoNet technology messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DOSPROMPT (yes/no)
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will add a message about itself to the DOS
    prompt when shelling out.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITAUTOATTACH &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, and you use drivespec (C:, D:, etc.) in the subject in
    a netmail message, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically turn on the file
    attach attribute. Autoattaching only works if the subject has been
    edited, so that subject files will not automatically be
    re-attached in replies.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITAUTOSAVE &lt;seconds&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (30)
      </p>
      <p>
    If a non-zero value is given, the internal editor will
    automatically execute the <kw>EDITsavefile</kw> function with intervals of
    &lt;seconds&gt;. Good for keeping automatic backup of the message you
    are writing. The saved file can be restored with the <kw>EDITloadfile</kw>
    command. The name of the saved file is defined with the <kw>EDITORFILE</kw>
    keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    If disaster strikes (crash, lockup, power blackout, etc.) while
    you are writing a message in the internal editor, this feature
    lets you continue from the last autosaved message, which will
    popup automatically when you enter the internal editor again.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: This feature only works 100% if KEYBMODE is set to "poll".
    If <kw>KEYBMODE</kw> is set to "block", autosave won't happen until you
    press a key after the interval has passed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCHANGEDATE &lt;always/yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to "always", <name>GoldED+</name> will always "touch" the message date in
    the header, if you change a message after saving it.
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to "yes", <name>GoldED+</name> will only "touch" the message date in the
    header, if you change a message written by yourself. This is
    useful in cases such as when you need to edit messages written by
    other people (in-transit netmails for example) which may be
    mis-addressed or something without messing up the date.
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to "no", the message date is not changed when changing a
    message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCHARPARA &lsqb;'&rsqb;&lt;char&gt;&lsqb;'&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
  (' ')
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the character <name>GoldED+</name> displays at the end of
    paragraphs in the internal editor. This is where the CR character
    will be placed once the msg is saved.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCHARSPACE &lsqb;'&rsqb;&lt;char&gt;&lsqb;'&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
  (' ')
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the character <name>GoldED+</name> displays when it should
    display a space character in the internal editor. See also the
    description of the <kw>EDITCHARPARA</kw> keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    The keywords <kw>EDITCHARPARA</kw> and <kw>EDITCHARSPACE</kw> were added to aid me
    while rewriting and debugging the new internal editor. By
    redefining them to visible characters instead of spaces, I could
    see if strange things were happening while inserting or deleting
    characters. This was a great help. Personally I now always use
    redefinitions to ASCII 20 (a paragraph sign) and CP437 250 (a
    small dot).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCOMMENT &lt;"word"&gt; &lt;"comment"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This feature is mostly for fun :-)
      </p>
      <p>
    It allows you to define words which causes <name>GoldED+</name> to display a
    comment in the statusline, when you place the cursor on the word
    in the internal editor.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      EDITCOMMENT ":-("     "Don't worry, be happy&excl;"
      EDITCOMMENT ":-)"     "Are we having fun yet?"
      EDITCOMMENT ";-)"     "Wink wink, nudge nugde..."
      EDITCOMMENT "&excl;&excl;&excl;"     "Flame Warning&excl;"
      EDITCOMMENT "GoldED"  "Great program, isn't it?"
      EDITCOMMENT "Odin"    "One more 'n' please."
      EDITCOMMENT "Odinn"   "That's right :-)"
      </p>
      <p>
    Have fun with it&excl;
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCOMPLETION &lt;"abbreviation"&gt; &lt;"completion"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This feature allows you to define abbreviations which will be
    automatically expanded to full words or sentences when typed in
    the internal editor. Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      EDITCOMPLETION "/Odin" "Odinn"
      EDITCOMPLETION "/GED"  "GoldED"
      EDITCOMPLETION "/V7"   "Version 7"
      EDITCOMPLETION "/FD"   "FrontDoor"
      EDITCOMPLETION "/WfW"  "Windows for Workgroups"
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE&excl;  The abbreviation is case-sensitive. If "XX" is defined as
    an abbreviation, completion will NOT be triggered if "xx" is
    typed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITCRLFTERM &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, all text paragraphs in your messages will be
    terminated with a CR/LF combination. If disabled, only a single CR
    is used. This option was created to fix a problem with an older
    version of the Dutchie mail processor, that apparently needed the
    CR/LF termination of kludge lines.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITFIELDCLEAR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, the input-fields will be automatically cleared for new
    entry, if a non-edit key is the first key pressed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHARDLINE &lt;string&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  ("&lt;&lt;")
      </p>
      <p>
    The string is needed if you use an external editor that terminates
    all lines with a CR or CR/LF. The hardline string acts as a text
    paragraph terminator, and the normal CR's are ignored.
      </p>
      <p>
    The concept of "hardlines" is explained in the Hardline Feature
    chapter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHARDLINES &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword enables the "hardline" feature. If disabled, the
    <kw>EDITHARDLINE</kw> string is never written to the editor message file,
    and the editor message file is read back exactly as entered,
    including terminating CR's on all lines.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHARDTERM &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will hard-terminate all lines in your messages
    at the editor margin. It is recommended to enable this keyword for
    Internet e-mail and newsgroups, because some user-unfriendly
    Internet software does not wrap long lines properly. But DON'T
    enable it in normal FidoNet echomail.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHDRNAMESET &lt;pos&gt; &lt;len&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (8 36)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specfies the position and length of the from/to name field in the
    header edit display. If a negative value is specified, that value
    is added to the current display width.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHDRNODESET &lt;pos&gt; &lt;len&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (44 36)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specfies the position and length of the from/to node address field
    in the header edit display. If a negative value is specified, that
    value is added to the current display width.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHEADERATTRS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword allows you to turn off the large attributes window
    that is shown during header edit. Even if the window is turned
    off, the Alt-keys are still active for toggling attributes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITHEADERFIRST &lt;new,changes,replies,forwards,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword controls the circumstances that will present you with
    the header editor first of all.
      </p>
      <p>
      New       When entering a new message.
      Changes   When changing a message
      Replies   When making a reply.
      Forwards  When forwarding a message.
      Yes       Always (all of the above).
      No        Never.
      </p>
      <p>
    The New, Changes, Replies and Forwards values can be combined. YES
    is equivalent to enabling all four of these.
      </p>
      <p>
    For example, we want to edit the header only when entering a new
    message or when changing a message:
      </p>
      <p>
      EDITHEADERFIRST New, Changes
      </p>
      <p>
    If the circumstances match the setup of this keyword, the header
    edit will be bypassed and you will start directly in the <kw>EDITMENU</kw>
    (if enabled) or in the internal or external editor. A new menu
    item has been added in the <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw>, "Edit Header", which
    allows you to edit the header after you have written your message,
    but before it is finally saved.
      </p>
      <p>
    If you set <kw>EDITHEADERFIRST</kw> to NO, you must either have the
    <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw> enabled, or use the internal editor, because
    otherwise it is not possible to edit the header at all.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITINTERNAL &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies if the internal editor should be the default, even if an
    external editor is defined. You can always change the setting in
    the editor menu (if <kw>EDITMENU</kw> is enabled) before you start writing
    your message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITMENU &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword enables or disables the "Edit menu" that pops up
    right after you have edited the message header. If you disable the
    menu, you will go to the internal or external editor immediately
    and save a keystroke, but you will of course lose the features
    available from the menu, such as selection of template etc.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITMIXCASE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If this keyword is enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically format the
    name with uppercase the first letter in words and lowercase the
    rest, when entering names in the header.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      "odinn sorensen"  or  "ODINN SORENSEN"
      </p>
      <p>
    These would be re-cased to "Odinn Sorensen".
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITMSGSIZE &lt;bytes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (64000 in DOS, 512000 in all others)
      </p>
      <p>
    This lets you limit the size of loaded msgs. <name>GoldED+</name> currently
    cannot handle msgs larger than 64k in the DOS version (all other
    platforms do not have this limit). This keyword ensures that the
    system will not get confused and possibly crash or exit, if a 
    message was encountered that was larger than 64k.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITOR &lt;commandline&gt; &lsqb;@file&rsqb; &lsqb;@line&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    With <name>GoldED+</name> it is possible to use your favorite text editor or
    even word processor to write messages. With this keyword you
    specify the commandline for the editor.
      </p>
      <p>
    If you use a word processor, be sure to make it export clean ASCII
    text files without control codes. You may also need to enable the
    DOSSWAP keyword, if the editor or word processor requires a lot of
    free memory to run.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;commandline&gt;   Program commandline.
      @file           Token which is replaced by the editor message
                      filename.
      @line           Token which is replaced by the @Position
                      template line number.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITORFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (GOLDED.MSG)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the name of the temporary editor message file. This file
    is written by <name>GoldED+</name> when swapping to the external editor, or when
    using the <kw>EDITsavefile</kw> command in the internal editor.
      </p>
      <p>
    The file is written in the GOLDPATH if there is no explicit path.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITQUOTEMARGIN &lt;margin&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (75)
      </p>
      <p>
    Sets the right margin for editing quoted lines in the internal
    editor. This should be set to the same or wider than the
    <kw>QUOTEMARGIN</kw>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITREPLYRE &lt;yes/no/numeric&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> inserts the "Re:" string in front of the
    subject when you reply to a message. If not enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will
    strip any leading "Re:" when you reply to a msg.
      </p>
      <p>
    The "Re:" string in subjects is an obsolete practice, and today it
    only slows down modern replylinking software. Do yourself and
    others a favor and let <name>GoldED+</name> strip the Re: in your replies.
      </p>
      <p>
    The "numeric" option makes <name>GoldED+</name> use numeric Re:'s, of the form
    "Re^n:".
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITSAVEMENU &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword enables or disables the "Save menu" that pops up
    after you have edited your message in the internal or external
    editor. If you disable the menu, your message will be saved (or
    discarded if not edited) immediately and save you a keystroke, but
    you will also lose the features available from the menu.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITSAVEUTIL &lt;utilno&gt; &lt;"L menu text"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the external utilities that will be added to the
    <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw> (if enabled). The menu text is inserted in the menu.
    The first two characters of the menu text are the "hotkey" letter
    that will be highlighted in the menu text, plus a space. Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      EDITSAVEUTIL 1 "S PGP Sign the msg"
      EDITSAVEUTIL 2 "l PGP Clear-Sign the msg"
      EDITSAVEUTIL 3 "E PGP Encrypt the msg"
      EDITSAVEUTIL 4 "p PGP Encrypt &amp; Sign the msg"
      </p>
      <p>
    If you have changed the default language in this menu (in
    GOLDLANG.CFG), then make sure the highlight letters don't clash.
      </p>
      <p>
    With <kw>EDITSAVEUTIL</kw> definitions and <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw> enabled, you can
    directly call an external utility to do things like encoding or
    encrypting msgs before saving them.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITSOFTCRXLAT &lt;char&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    If a translation char is defined, <name>GoldED+</name> will translate the
    soft-cr character (ASCII 141, HEX 8D) while saving message to base.
    The following example translates the soft-cr to an 'H' (for use in Russia):
      </p>
      <p>
      EDITSOFTCRXLAT H
      </p>
      <p>
    You also have to enable the <kw>DISPSOFTCR</kw> keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITSPELLCHECK &lt;commandline&gt; &lsqb;@file&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    While in the internal editor, you can use the <kw>EDITspellcheck</kw>
    command to save your message to a file and shell to external
    spellchecking software. When the check is completed, the corrected
    file is read back and you can continue editing your message. The
    <kw>EDITspellcheck</kw> command internally uses the <kw>EDITsavefile</kw> and
    <kw>EDITloadfile</kw> commands.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;commandline&gt;   Spellchecker program commandline.
      &lsqb;@file&rsqb;         Token which is replaced by the message filename
                      (defined by the <kw>EDITORFILE</kw> keyword).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EDITUNDELETE &lt;lines&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (50)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the number of lines to keep in the undelete
    buffer between messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EMPTYTEARLINE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    With this keyword enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will always strip the tearline
    down to just the three dashes, "---", and instead inserts the PID
    (Product IDentification) kludge line, which contains the same
    information, but in a safer form in a safer place. The PID kludge
    is proposed in FidoNet document FSC-0046.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ENCODEEMAILHEADERS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    By default headers in e-mails MIME-encoded according to RFC. In
    Russia it is general practice not to encode headers, so you
    probably want to say No here if you're in Russia ;-) This keyword
    supported only in -asa versions.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ENDGROUP
      </head>
      <p>
    Ends a Random System <kw>GROUP</kw> definition.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EVENT &lt;eventtype&gt; &lt;eventcommand &lsqb;parameters&rsqb;&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword allows you to specify which soundfile to play when a
    specfic event occurs. The following &lt;eventtype&gt;'s are defined:
      </p>
      <p>
      EVENTTYPE       TRIGGER:
      </p>
      <p>
      Arealist        When the arealist shows.
      AskYesNo        Any Yes/No type prompt.
      Attention       Warnings or information popup messages.
      DosShell        When entering a DOS or OS/2 shell.
      EditComment     When an editcomment is found.
      EndOfMsgs       When there are no more msgs in the area.
      ErrorFatal      Fatal error exit.
      Exit            Exit from <name>GoldED+</name>.
      JobDone         Successful completion of a job.
      JobFailed       Unsuccessful completion of a job.
      MsgDeleting     When deleting a msg.
      MsgFromYou      When a msg from you is found.
      MsgIsLocal      When a msg marked Local is found.
      MsgIsTwit       When a msg from a Twit is found.
      MsgToYou        When a msg to you is found.
      SearchFailed    Search operation failed.
      SearchSuccess   Search operation was successful.
      Startup         When the <name>GoldED+</name> startup screen shows.
      </p>
      <p>
    There is currently only one &lt;eventcommand&gt; defined:
      </p>
      <p>
      PLAY &lt;filename.ext/beepnoise&gt;.
      </p>
      <p>
    The parameter to PLAY can be either a sound file or one of the
    following standard beepnoises:
      </p>
      <p>
      TheEnd    A high and a low note.
      GotIt     Two sets of low-high notes.
      TooBad    A falling note.
      ToYou     A rising and falling note.
      SayBiBi   A single beep.
      SOS       Morse S O S (...---...).
      </p>
      <p>
    If a sound file is specified, the sound driver must support the
    format.
      </p>
      <p>
    The DOS and 386 versions need a Goldware Sound API compatible TSR
    or program loader which installs an interrupt service function on
    the multiplex interrupt 2Dh. See the chapter about the Goldware
    Sound API for more details. The GCTVSAPI program loader (released
    separately) currently only supports the CT-VOICE.DRV driver for
    .VOC files.
      </p>
      <p>
    The OS/2 version relies on MMPM/2 (using the mciSendString API
    call) to play the sound files. On my system with a Sound Blaster
    Pro, MMPM/2 plays both .WAV and (to my surprise) .VOC files. It
    even plays .MID files :-)
      </p>
      <p>
    The Win32 version uses the Win32 API to play the sound files. It
    should be able to play any multimedia file that Windows knows how
    to handle.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example usages:
      </p>
      <p>
      EVENT MsgToYou  PLAY HIMAN.VOC
      EVENT MsgIsTwit PLAY SHOTGUN.VOC
      </p>
      <p>
    You have to select the sounds carefully and probably with a lot of
    experimentation, unless you want to turn your mailreader into a
    honking, wailing and farting monster and drive your poor family or
    yourself nuts with a cacophony of noises...
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EXCLUDENODES &lt;addressmask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    You can define up to 50 different addressmasks to be excluded from
    the compiled nodelists. Use this if you are short of space, or the
    nodelist compile takes very long on your system. This keyword is
    used by GoldNODE.
      </p>
      <p>
    Excluded nodes can be re-included with the <kw>INCLUDENODES</kw> keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EXTERNOPTIONS &lt;-options&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the default options for the <kw>EXTERNUTIL</kw>'s. Valid options:
      </p>
      <p>
      -Cls            * Clear screen.
      -Cursor         * Cursor in shell.
      -KeepCtrl       * Keep control lines in the message.
      -Pause            Pause for keypress before returning to <name>GoldED+</name>.
      -PauseOnError   * Pause only if utility errorlevel is nonzero.
      -Reload         * Reload the message file (@file).
      -Swap           * Swap <name>GoldED+</name> out of memory before shelling.
      -Wipe             Wipe editorfile and temporary file after use.
      </p>
      <p>
    Plus the reverse options with a "No" prefix, for example -NoCls.
    The default options are marked with an asterisk (*).
      </p>
      <p>
    Use -NoKeepCtrl when you want to clearsign a message. This will
    strip the control lines (kludges, tearline and origin) from the
    message before passing it to the external utility. The tearline
    and origin is appended to the message when reloading it. The
    default is to keep control lines in the message.
      </p>
      <p>
    Use -Wipe when you want the temporary unencrypted message files to
    be wiped and removed from the disk after they have been read into
    memory. <name>GoldED+</name> wipes a file by writing a block of 512 random bytes
    over the entire length of the file, then truncating it to zero
    bytes and finally deleting it. The default is not to wipe files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EXTERNUTIL &lt;utilno&gt; &lsqb;-options&rsqb; &lt;commandline&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This new feature can be used to "filter" msgs, for example calling
    PGP or other encryption utilities.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;utilno&gt; must be in the range 1 to 24 for utilities that will
    be called with key definitions (see below). Higher numbers can be
    used for utilities that are called from the <kw>EDITSAVEMENU</kw> (if
    enabled). See the <kw>EDITSAVEUTIL</kw> keyword for details.
      </p>
      <p>
    The default options are those specified with the <kw>EXTERNOPTIONS</kw>
    keyword. With &lsqb;-options&rsqb;, you can change the those options locally
    for specific utils. See the <kw>EXTERNOPTIONS</kw> keyword for a list of
    valid options.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;commandline&gt; specfies the DOS or OS/2 commandline you want to
    execute. This works in the same way as for the external editor and
    spellchecker. See the manual for details about this, especially if
    you want to execute batchfiles. In the &lt;commandline&gt; you can use
    @tokens to transfer information from the msg to the commandline.
    The @tokens are the same as for templates, and in addition you can
    use two other @tokens:
      </p>
      <p>
      @path     The GOLDPATH, including a trailing backslash.
      @file     The full filename of the message file (GOLDED.MSG)
                that will be written to disk before the utility is
                called.
      @tmpfile  The full filename of a temporary message file
                (GEDTMPxx.xxx) that will be written to disk before the
                utility is called.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      EXTERNUTIL 1 c:&bsol;4dos&bsol;4dos.com /c c:&bsol;crypt&bsol;encrypt.bat @file
      EXTERNUTIL 2 c:&bsol;4dos&bsol;4dos.com /c c:&bsol;crypt&bsol;decrypt.bat @file
      </p>
      <p>
    To call a defined external utility, you must assign a key to it.
    There are 24 new keyboard commands you can use in GOLDKEYS.CFG for
    this purpose:
      </p>
      <p>
      ExternUtilNN
      </p>
      <p>
    Where NN is in the range 01 to 24 _with_ leading zero. Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      F11 ExternUtil01
      F12 ExternUtil02
      </p>
      <p>
    Then if you press F11, you would call external utility number 1
    and so on. The <kw>ExternUtilNN</kw> keywords ONLY work in reader mode, not
    in the internal editor or any other place.
      </p>
      <p>
    HOW IT WORKS:
      </p>
      <p>
    1.  Just before the external utility is called, <name>GoldED+</name> writes the
        current message text to the GOLDED.MSG file in the GOLDPATH.
        The file is written as a textfile with each line CR-LF
        terminated. The content is exactly as you see it on the
        screen, which means that kludges are only included if you have
        enabled kludge viewing. If the -NoKeepCtrl option is used,
        kludges, tearline and origin are stripped before the file is
        written. If the token @tmpfile is used, a temporary file named
        GEDTMPxx.xxx (where xx.xxx is something unique) is created
        with exactly the same content as @file.
      </p>
      <p>
    2.  <name>GoldED+</name> clears the screen and then calls the utility after
        swapping itself out of memory (if swapping is enabled or
        relevant for the version).
      </p>
      <p>
    3.  The utility can now load and process the @file and/or
        @tmpfile, or do anything else you want. It doesn't have to
        have anything to do with the current msg. You could call a
        spreadsheet, a game, whatever. But I think this feature will
        mainly be used for utilities that process the @file. If the
        utility processes the @file, it could write the changes back
        to the @file.
      </p>
      <p>
    4.  After returning from the utility, <name>GoldED+</name> reloads the @file and
        displays it just as if it was the current message. For
        example, if your utility was a decrypter and the msg was
        encrypted, you would now see the decrypted msg. Neat eh? :-)
      </p>
      <p>
    5.  If you want to make the reloaded text permanent (save it in
        the msg), you can use the Change Msg function and immediately
        choose "Save Message" from the Editing menu (if enabled with
        EDITMENU Yes). This is in fact the method you could use if you
        wanted to EN-crypt a msg (however, it is easier to use the
        method which involves the EDITSAVEUTIL keyword).
      </p>
      <p>
    The QUOTESPACING feature can interfere with encoded msgs that
    include the '&gt;' character at the beginning of lines (often seen in
    uuencoded msgs), by automatically inserting blank lines before and
    after the lines with '&gt;'. I have therefore changed the
    quotespacing default from YES to NO. Be sure to check if you have
    a different setting if you are using an older edition of the
    advanced configuration files.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the string "-----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----" is found as the first
    27 characters in a reloaded message, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically add
    the FSC-0073 kludge "^aENC: PGP" to indicate that the message is
    encrypted. This kludge may be used by some software to set up
    alternative routing for encrypted mail which would otherwise be
    bounced if sent through normal channels.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the "Using PGP as an External Utility" chapter for batchfile
    examples and instructions on how to use this new feature with PGP.
      </p>
      <p>
    &excl;&excl;&excl; IMPORTANT &excl;&excl;&excl;  From FidoNet Policy 4.07 (chapter 2.1.4):
      </p>
      <p>
      "&lsqb;..&rsqb; Therefore, encrypted and/or commercial traffic that is
      routed without the express permission of all the links in the
      delivery system constitutes annoying behavior."
      </p>
      <p>
    So be careful with this feature&excl;
      </p>
      <p>
    TIP: You can use the EXTERNUTIL feature to setup keys to view or
    print an attached fax. Use something like this in GOLDED.CFG:
      </p>
      <p>
      EXTERNUTIL 11 c:&bsol;zfax&bsol;zfax.com pf @subject     ; print fax
      EXTERNUTIL 12 c:&bsol;zfax&bsol;zfax.com vf @subject     ; view fax
      </p>
      <p>
    And this in GOLDKEYS.CFG:
      </p>
      <p>
      @F11  ExternUtil11    ; Press Alt-F11 to print the fax
      @F12  ExternUtil12    ; Press Alt-F12 to view the fax
      </p>
      <p>
    Or choose your own key assignments and fax view/print utils.
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that this assumes that the fax file is listed in the subject
    line like an attached file.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If you're running <name>GoldED+</name>/386 and try to use a Win32 program
    as an EXTERNUTIL, you might get the error "This program cannot be
    run in DOS mode". You can work around this by calling the Win32
    program via the shell. For example if this call fails:
      </p>
      <p>
      EXTERNUTIL 1 c:&bsol;utl&bsol;mywin32.exe @file
      </p>
      <p>
    Replace it with:
      </p>
      <p>
      EXTERNUTIL 1 command.com /c c:&bsol;utl&bsol;mywin32.exe @file
      </p>
      <p>
    Then it should work. If not, try using full path to command.com.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EZYCOMMSGBASE &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the base path for the Ezycom msgbase. If not set, AREAFILE
    Ezycom will set it.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EZYCOMUSERBASE &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the base path for the Ezycom userbase. If not set,
    AREAFILE Ezycom will set it.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EZYCOMUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the lastread set used in the Ezycom message base.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDOHWMARKS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use the echomail "highwater mark" (1.MSG)
    to determine if a message is "sent" or "unsent" in *.MSG areas.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: Some older echomail processors do not update the highwater
    mark in a way that <name>GoldED+</name> can recognize. If all messages appear to
    marked "Uns", even after the mail has been scanned out, try
    turning off this keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDOLASTREAD &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (LASTREAD)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the filename of the *.MSG lastread files. DO NOT specify a
    path.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDOMSGTYPE &lt;Opus/FTS1&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Opus)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the default format of Fido *.MSG files. It is
    only used by some AREAFILE's when reading external area
    configuration files, where the preferred format is unknown.
      </p>
      <p>
    The FTS1 (FTS-0001.012 and later) format uses zone/point fields,
    where the Opus format uses date/time stamps. When set to Opus
    format, <name>GoldED+</name> interprets the date/time stamps as DOS-style
    bitmapped date/time.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDONULLFIX &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, <name>GoldED+</name> will replace NUL chars with LF chars in the
    msg body when reading a Fido *.MSG file. This is slower of course,
    but not noticably on fast machines.
      </p>
      <p>
    This option was created to enable <name>GoldED+</name> users to read msgs that
    were created/handled by brain-dead programs (I don't have names,
    sorry) which are not obeying our primary technical standard:
    FTS-0001. FTS-1 states that a NUL terminates the msg body. But
    sometimes msgs are encountered which have a NUL as the first char
    in the msg body or perhaps in other places, thereby causing <name>GoldED+</name>
    to show a blank or cut-off msg. In some Pascal-based readers, such
    as FM, these msgs can be read anyway, because in Pascal a NUL does
    not terminate a string like in C/C++.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: Even if the new FIDONULLFIX keyword is disabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will
    still fix a NUL if it is the _first_ character in the msg body.
    This probably fixes most of these buggy msgs without the overhead
    of checking the entire msg.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDOUSERLIST &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path and filename of a FIDOUSER.LST file.
      </p>
      <p>
    This file is expected to be sorted in ascending alphabetical order
    using plain ASCII case-insensitive sort. Each line in the list is
    expected to be 60 characters plus a CR and a LF, or in other words
    records of 62 bytes each. If the list is produced by a nodelist
    compiler, everything should be okay, but be careful if you have 
    edited the file manually. Note that a FIDOUSER.LST file only
    supports a name lookup (to get the address).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FIDOUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    This is an index into the FIDOLASTREAD file. Each user occupies 2
    bytes in the lastread file.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FILEALIAS &lt;alias&gt; &lt;filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Used to define short alias names for filenames. If you regularly
    write msgs to different files in different paths, this feature is
    very useful, and reduces the risk of typing wrong.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      FILEALIAS DKB R:&bsol;DKBBS&bsol;DKBBS
      </p>
      <p>
    With this file alias, you can simply write "DKB" at the filename
    prompt, and the long filename will be used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FILELISTPAGEBAR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Enables or disables a pagebar (scrollbar) in the file attach list
    function.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FORCETEMPLATE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will popup a template selection menu when you
    start writing a new msg or reply. If you have both TEMPLATE(s) and
    FORCETEMPLATE in a Random System group, you can tell <name>GoldED+</name> to use
    the random template(s) by hitting ESC instead of selecting from
    the menu.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FORMFEEDSEPARATOR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Used when saving messages to file. If enabled, it inserts a Form
    Feed (12d) character after each message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FRQEXT &lt;.ext&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    With this keyword you can add extra known filename extensions for
    the filerequest function. The following extensions are already
    known by default, and need not be defined (duplicate definitions
    are ignored):
      </p>
      <p>
      .ARC .ARJ .DOC .EXE .GIF .LHA .LZH .JPG .PAK .PNG .RAR .RUN .SDA
      .SDN .TXT .ZIP .ZOO
      </p>
      <p>
    Each extension _must_ have the leading dot.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example: FRQEXT .XYZ
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FRQNODEMAP &lt;to-node&gt; &lt;from-node&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword is used for the file request feature (Ctrl-F). It
    allows you to define mappings from a nodenumber used in a file
    announcement to another nodenumber. This is useful in the cases
    where a multi-line system announces files using their primary
    nodenumber, which may be a regular V34 modem number, but they also
    have an ISDN number, which you would prefer to use instead.
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      //         change-to: from:
      FRQNODEMAP 2:236/99   2:236/100
      FRQNODEMAP 2:236/1043 2:236/43
      </p>
      <p>
    So, if I saw a file announcement from 2:236/100, and requested
    some files, the request would automatically be addressed to
    2:236/99.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FRQOPTIONS &lt;options&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (FromTop)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines options for the file request function:
      </p>
      <p>
      Sort        Sort the list of files alphabetically.
      FromTop     Scan the message from the top of the message.
      NotFromTop  Scan the message from the top of the screen.
      NoFiles     Don't list the file FILES if no files were found.
      NoWazooMsg  Don't save the request message.
      Fast        Bypass the header edit and save the msg immediately.
      </p>
      <p>
    By default, the "FromTop" option is enabled. If you often request
    files from very long announcement messages, you might find it very
    useful to set the "NotFromTop" option.
      </p>
      <p>
    The "NoFiles" option was added because if no filenames are found
    in a message, the file request function defaults to listing the
    magic name FILES instead of complaining that no files were found.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the FRQWAZOO keyword is enabled, the default behaviour is to
    save the request message with the FRQ attribute stripped. Use the
    "NoWazooMsg" option if you don't want the request message.
      </p>
      <p>
    Use the "Fast" option if you find that you almost never change the
    destination of the file request message anyway. If you enable this
    option, remember that you can always go over to the netmail area
    and change the file request message before it is sent.
      </p>
      <p>
    The UseFlowFile option enables a feature which was default in
    2.50, but which I have been informed is problematic for modern
    mailers in some setups. The default is now to ONLY create/update
    the .REQ file and NOT also touch/create a .?LO flowfile.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FRQWAZOO &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will create WaZOO .REQ files instead of file
    request messages. You must define an OUTBOUNDPATH if you enable
    this feature.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GEDHANDSHAKE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If this switch set to yes GoldEd displays handshake char in
    statusline. If you annoyed with this feature you could hide this
    character by setting this option to no.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GERMANKEYBOARD &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (autodetect)
      </p>
      <p>
    This option is meanful for w32 version only. Due to right Alt key
    required to enter some native characters in german version of
    Windows it could be defined to yes for this.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GOLDBASEPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the directory where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the Goldbase msgbase
    files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GOLDBASESYSPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the directory where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the NETMAIL.DAT and
    ECHOMAIL.DAT files of the Goldbase msgbase. If not specified, the
    GOLDBASEPATH is used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GOLDBASEUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the lastread set used in the Goldbase message base.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GOLDPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is the path where <name>GoldED+</name> finds all it's control files. It is
    not necessary to define this, unless you have special needs. The
    GOLDPATH defaults to directory where the GOLDED.CFG file was
    found.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GROUP &lt;groupname&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Starts a Random System group. See the Random System chapter for
    details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HAPPYBIRTHDAY &lt;value&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    The only valid value is "friend". Currently do nothing.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HIGHLIGHTUNREAD &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> updates (increases) the "timesread" field in
    each message that you read. If set to NO, it doesn't touch the
    message. The YES setting causes a slight performance decrease,
    because the header of each message has to be read, the timesread
    field updated and the header written back to disk. The update
    happens immediately after the message is displayed, so you may not
    notice it at all. A message is only updated if the timesread field
    contains the value 0 (zero).
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword only works in the following msgbase formats: Fido
    (*.MSG), Hudson, Goldbase, JAM, Squish, Ezycom and AdeptXBBS. In
    Squish and Ezycom, there is no timesread field, but I have annexed
    a reserved message attribute (in Squish, 0x00080000, now called
    MSGSEEN; in Ezycom, extattr 0x80) for the purpose of marking a
    message as read at least once. The other formats (PCBoard,
    WildCat) have no timesread field, but they have reserved fields or
    attributes which *could* be used. Let me know if you want this.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HUDSONPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the directory where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the Hudson msgbase
    files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HUDSONSIZEWARN &lt;size in bytes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (16000000)
      </p>
      <p>
    When the Hudson MSGTXT.BBS file exceeds this size, <name>GoldED+</name> starts
    to warn that the msgbase is getting dangerously close to the
    structural limit (which is 16MB for the MSGTXT.BBS file). With
    this keyword you can raise or lower the warning size in case you
    think the default is too low or too high.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HUDSONSYSPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the directory where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the NETMAIL.BBS and
    ECHOMAIL.BBS files of the Hudson msgbase. If not specified, the
    HUDSONPATH is used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        HUDSONUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the lastread set used in the Hudson message base.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        IGNORECHARSET &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to yes then GoldEd ignores CHRS kludges in messages thus
    you will be able to switch codepage in messages with inappropriate
    charset.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        IMPORTBEGIN &lt;text&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  ("=== Cut ===")
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword, together with IMPORTEND, defines some text to add in
    the beginning and end of an imported text file in the internal
    editor. If only IMPORTBEGIN is defined, the text is also used for
    the IMPORTEND. The &lt;text&gt; may be enclosed in quotes ("") if
    leading or trailing spaces are needed. The quotes are stripped.
      </p>
      <p>
    The replacement token "@file" can be used in the &lt;text&gt;. It will
    be replaced with the import filename as entered.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      IMPORTBEGIN === Cut Begin: @file ===
      IMPORTEND === Cut End ===
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        IMPORTEND &lt;text&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (same as IMPORTBEGIN)
      </p>
      <p>
    See IMPORTBEGIN.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INBOUNDPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to GOLDPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    The inbound path is currently only used with the file request
    feature (the READfilerequest command, &lt;Ctrl-F&gt;). If you use this
    feature, <name>GoldED+</name> will put the file descriptions into a FILES.BBS in
    the inbound path, ready for when the requested files are moved to
    the correct file areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INCLUDENODES &lt;addressmask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    You can define up to 50 different addressmasks to be included from
    the compiled nodelists. This is only used in conjunction with the
    EXCLUDENODES keyword to include otherwise EXcluded nodes. This
    keyword is only used by GoldNODE.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INPUTFILE &lt;filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (*)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the default name in the internal editor file import
    function.
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> can automatically uuencode and apply a base64 encoding to
    the files during importing them into the internal editor.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: This is a very simple implementation of encoders. It cannot
    split large files over several messages. The file mode number 644 
    is hard-coded and has nothing to do with the actual file mode.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTENSECOLORS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> is capable of switching off the "blink" color, and thereby
    enabling the use of bright background (paper) colors. Enable this
    keyword, and try out one of the intense color setup examples.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETADDRESS &lt;internet-address&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies your Internet address. This must be the address only, no
    name. The INTERNETADDRESS and USERNAME will be combined to a
    standard "From: internetaddresss (username)" headerline when you
    write e-mail or articles.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      USERNAME Odinn Sorensen
      INTERNETADDRESS odinn@ibm.net
      </p>
      <p>
    Produces the RFC line:
      </p>
      <p>
      From: odinn@ibm.net (Odinn Sorensen)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETDOMAIN &lt;domainname&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
 (username%domain.net)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the domain-part of outgouing Message-ID's. If you don't
    know your full domain, leave it as default, which should work just
    fine.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETGATE &lsqb;gatename&lt;,&gt;&rsqb;&lt;address&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the local Internet gate you use when sending netmail to
    Internet users. This option is activated when you write an
    Internet address in the TO: field in the header display. <name>GoldED+</name>
    detects the Internet address by looking for the '@' character. If
    detected, <name>GoldED+</name> puts the gate address from INTERNETGATE in the
    TO: address field. If you have defined the optional gate name
    (typically UUCP), <name>GoldED+</name> also replaces the typed Internet address
    with the gate name and puts the Internet address in a TO: line in
    the message body. Some gate software accepts the Internet address
    directly in the header, while other software may need the special
    (UUCP) name and a separate TO: line. Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      INTERNETGATE UUCP, 1:105/42     ; Standard, with gate name
      INTERNETGATE 2:230/9316         ; My uplink runs GIGO software
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally in GOLDED.CFG, if you only ever
    use one gate, or in GROUP's for specific areas in GOLDRAND.CFG if
    you have multiple netmail areas and regularly use more than one
    gate.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If you enable the INTERNETRFCBODY keyword, you should always
    use the gatename UUCP, because otherwise the gateway software may
    send duplicate copies (carbon copies) of your e-mails.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETLOOKUP &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to Yes, <name>GoldED+</name> will check the systemname in the nodelist
    when doing a lookup and if the systemname looks like an Internet
    address (contains an '@' char), the msg will be addressed to that
    Internet address using the INTERNETGATE name/address if defined.
      </p>
      <p>
    For example, let's say there was something like this in the
    nodelist:
      </p>
      <p>
      ,999,somebody@somewhere,Whereever,Some_Body,...
      </p>
      <p>
    And this in my GOLDED.CFG:
      </p>
      <p>
      INTERNETLOOKUP Yes
      INTERNETGATE 2:230/9316
      </p>
      <p>
    Then if I did a lookup of "Some Body" and selected the entry with
    the Internet address, <name>GoldED+</name> would make a msg looking like this:
      </p>
      <p>
      --------------------------------------
      From : odinn@winboss.dk     2:236/77
      To   : somebody@somewhere   2:230/9316
      Subj : whatever
      --------------------------------------
      </p>
      <p>
    Or if my gate was defined as "INTERNETGATE UUCP 2:230/9316":
      </p>
      <p>
      --------------------------------------
      From : odinn@winboss.dk     2:236/77
      To   : UUCP                 2:230/9316
      Subj : whatever
      --------------------------------------
      To: somebody@somewhere
      </p>
      <p>
    So what's the use of all this?  It allows you to make a
    nodelist-style list of users with Internet addresses and use it
    with <name>GoldED+</name> so that you can do a lookup of normal names instead of
    trying to remember strange Internet addresses. Of course something
    similar could be done using the ADDRESSMACRO's, but with the
    nodelist approach, you could build a "network" of users which have
    offline Internet access via FTN-gate software and distribute the
    nodelist for automatic processing.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETMSGID &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies whether the FTN MSGID kludge should contain an RFC1036
    compatible Message-ID or the normal FTS-9 format. Note that using
    the RFC1036 format in MSGID breaks the FTS-9 (version 001)
    specification, so please don't use this feature in FidoNet netmail
    or echomail. As a safeguard, <name>GoldED+</name> will only use the RFC1036
    format in areas specifically marked as e-mail or newsgroups, using
    the SOUPEMAIL and SOUPNEWSRCFILE keywords or using the Email and
    News area types with the AREADEF keyword, even when INTERNETMSGID
    is set to YES globally.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETREPLY &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    When INTERNETREPLY is enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> always uses the FSC-35
    REPLYADDR/REPLYTO kludges to gate replies to msgs from Internet
    correctly. If disabled, <name>GoldED+</name> only uses the FSC-35 method if the
    Internet address is too large to fit in the max-35-character TO:
    header field. Some gate software requires that the FSC-35 method
    is used, while other software accepts Internet addresses directly
    in the header.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETRFCBODY &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Tells <name>GoldED+</name> whether to look for and process RFC headerlines at
    the top of the message body, before the first empty line. Also
    tells <name>GoldED+</name> to insert its own RFC headerlines at the top of the
    message body instead of as kludge lines. This option should only
    be used when receiving Internet mail as QWK packets where the RFC
    headerlines are usually found at the top of the messages, or when
    sending Internet mail via FTN packet to a gateway running GIGO.
    GIGO does not recognize RFC header in kludges, but it does
    recognize them at the top of the messages, if it is properly
    configured (with lines of "Allow_Xxx:" in GIGO's HEADERS.CFG,
    where Xxx are the RFC headerlines the gate administrator wants to
    allow).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETSERVER &lt;nntp/smpt&gt; &lt;server&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTERNETSERVER &lt;pop3&gt; &lt;server&gt; &lsqb;&lt;username&gt;&rsqb; &lsqb;&lt;password&gt;&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    No code currently associated with this keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INVALIDATE &lt;type&gt; &lt;"findstring"&gt; &lt;"replacestring"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is used to invalidate (change) certain control strings in
    quoted text. Use this in conjunction with old versions of D'Bridge
    or other software that chokes on control strings in quoted text.
    As an added bonus feature, if the tearline or origin is
    invalidated to a null string (""), they will not be quoted at all.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;type&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      Tearline  Invalidate tearline ("---").
      Origin    Invalidate origin (" * Origin: ").
      Seenby    Invalidate SEEN-BY's.
      </p>
      <p>
    By default, the following invalidations are used:
      </p>
      <p>
      INVALIDATE Tearline "---"           "-+-"
      INVALIDATE Origin   " * Origin: "   " + Origin: "
      INVALIDATE Seenby   "SEEN-BY"       "SEEN+BY"
      </p>
      <p>
    If you want to disable invalidation entirely, use this:
      </p>
      <p>
      INVALIDATE Tearline "---" "---"
      INVALIDATE Origin   " * Origin: " " * Origin: "
      INVALIDATE Seenby   "SEEN-BY" "SEEN-BY"
      </p>
      <p>
    The defined INVALIDATEs are also used during importing a file when
    editing a mail in the internal message editor.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        JAMHARDDELETE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    The default setting makes <name>GoldED+</name> conform to the JAMAPI specs when
    deleting msgs in JAM msgbases. This means that deleted msgs are
    only marked as such in the message header, not in the index. As a
    result, <name>GoldED+</name> will find and display the deleted msgs until you
    run a message pack utility to physically remove the deleted msgs.
      </p>
      <p>
    If JAMHARDDELETE is set to Yes, <name>GoldED+</name> will zap the reference to
    the message in the index when deleting msgs. This way the deleted
    msgs will not show up again later. The drawback of this approach
    is that it is hard to undelete msgs, and may break other software
    which assume 100% to-the-letter conformance to the specs. Note
    however, that the hard-delete method is transparent to normal use
    of JAM msgbases. Probably the only software that might break are
    undelete utilities.
      </p>
      <p>
    For the techies and programmers, the hard-delete method is simply
    setting both UserCRC and HdrOffset in the index to 0xFFFFFFFF
    instead of only the UserCRC. According to the JAMAPI specs, a
    value of 0xFFFFFFFF in HdrOffset means that "there is no
    corresponding message header". Sounds remarkably like a deleted
    msg, right? :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        JAMPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to the HUDSONPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the path where <name>GoldED+</name> can access the NETMAIL/ECHOMAIL.JAM
    files, which are used by mail processors to find and scan out mail
    written by users.
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> can handle enviroment variables correctly in paths
    specified in connection with this keyword. For example, if a path
    is defined as %MAIL%&bsol;path&bsol;name, and SET MAIL=C:&bsol;POINT is in
    AUTOEXEC.BAT (or whatever), then <name>GoldED+</name> translates the path to
    C:&bsol;POINT&bsol;path&bsol;name.
    NOTE: The translation is done at config compile time, so if you
    change the environment variable and haven't changed anything else
    that would cause <name>GoldED+</name> to recompile it's config, you must force
    it with the -F or -FF command parameter.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KEYBCLEAR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Tells <name>GoldED+</name> whether or not to clear the keyboard buffer on
    startup. This also clears KEYBSTACK or commandline key stuffing.
    In older versions of <name>GoldED+</name>, it was necessary to enable this
    keyword if you had renamed GOLDED.EXE to DBEDIT.EXE. This version
    detects the .EXE renaming and automatically enables KEYBCLEAR,
    regardless of the configuration setting.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KEYBDEFAULTS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> defines a default keyboard configuration setup internally.
    The keys can be reconfigured in the GOLDKEYS.CFG file. By default,
    the internal keyboard setup is active always, redefinable with the
    definitions in GOLDKEYS.CFG. But in some cases it can be
    preferrable that the internal keyboard setup is turned off, so
    that only the keys in GOLDKEYS.CFG are active. If you want this,
    set KEYBDEFAULTS to NO.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KEYBEXT &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (detect)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use extended bios calls to read the
    keyboard. With the extended keyboard, you can use keys like
    &lt;Alt-Left&gt;, &lt;Alt-Home&gt; and other extended keys. If you don't have
    an extended keyboard, don't despair - using a few neat tricks, I
    have made it possible to use some of the extended keys even with a
    non-extended keyboard.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KEYBMODE &lt;poll/block&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (poll)
      </p>
      <p>
    If this option is set to Poll, <name>GoldED+</name> switches its keyboard
    handling code from "blocking" to "polling" mode. This enables
    <name>GoldED+</name> to provide a continuously running statusline clock,
    automatic internal editor autosave, timeout exit and screensaver.
    If set to Block, the timeout exit and screensaver are disabled,
    and the clock and autosave are dependent on key presses.
      </p>
      <p>
    In order to minimize waste of CPU resources in keyboard polling
    mode, <name>GoldED+</name> automatically detects DESQview, Windows and OS/2 and
    releases timeslices during the keyboard poll.
      </p>
    </div2>
<div2 id=KEYBSTACK><head>KEYBSTACK &lt;keystring&gt;</head>
      <p>
    With this keyword, you can "stack" keys in the keyboard buffer.
    The KEYBSTACK can be overridden by commandline keystacking, which
    uses the same syntax.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;keystring&gt; can be a mixture of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      ^Char     Ctrl-key (^Letter).
      ~Char     Ctrl-key (~Letter). (Use this with 4DOS&excl;).
      @Key      Alt-key (@Number or @Letter).
      Char      Literal character.
      "String"  String, enclosed in double quotes.
      'String'  String, enclosed in single quotes.
      Number    Keyboard scan code (decimal).
      &excl;         Clear keyboard buffer.
      </p>
      <p>
    Whitespace (space and tab) is ignored, except in quoted strings.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the <ptr target=MACROSANDKEYSTACKING> chapter for more info.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KLUDGE &lt;kludge-definition&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    The definition may optionally be enclosed in quotes. A definition
    must be enclosed in quotes if it contains leading or trailing
    spaces. The KLUDGE tells <name>GoldED+</name> which kludges it should consider
    as "known" in addition to the built-in known kludges.
      </p>
      <p>
    Here are a bunch of examples, most of which are kludges generated
    by the GIGO Internet gateway software:
      </p>
      <p>
      KLUDGE "  "                 ; For wrapped kludges
      KLUDGE "Content-Type:"
      KLUDGE "Date:"
      KLUDGE "From:"
      KLUDGE "In-Reply-To:"
      KLUDGE "Message-Id:"
      KLUDGE "Mime-Version:"
      KLUDGE "Organization:"
      KLUDGE "Newsgroups:"
      KLUDGE "Received:"
      KLUDGE "Reply-To:"
      KLUDGE "Sender:"
      KLUDGE "Subject:"
      KLUDGE "To:"
      KLUDGE "Errors-To:"
      KLUDGE "X-FTN-From:"
      KLUDGE "ORIGREF:"           ; Gated?
      KLUDGE "ORIGID:"            ; Gated?
      KLUDGE "RFC-"               ; Seen in NET_DEV
      </p>
      <p>
    The kludges defined with KLUDGE are not case-sensitive, but when
    <name>GoldED+</name> looks for the kludges, it matches to the exact length. This
    means that for example "RFC-" will match all kludges beginning
    with that string.
      </p>
      <p>
    The ASCII 1 kludge char should not be included in the definition
    string, but <name>GoldED+</name> can handle it if you do.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        KLUDGECHRS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, <name>GoldED+</name> uses the "^aCHRS" kludge instead of the
    "^aCHARSET" kludge when appropriate.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOADLANGUAGE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    If defined, this keyword will load a language definition file.
      </p>
      <p>
    This feature can be used to load a small set of national language
    definitions in national areas, an english set in international
    areas, etc. Typically this would be used to load the definitions
    of the date/time strings for use in the template and the
    Msg/From/To/Subj strings in the header display.
      </p>
      <p>
    In the ADVANCED archive, a set of GEDLNG*.CFG files are provided,
    which are designed for use with LOADLANGUAGE. Please note that
    there is also a @loadlanguage template token. This way you can
    choose to load a language file from the template, or by using the
    Random System. The template token takes precedence over the
    LOADLANGUAGE in the Random System, but if both are defined, both
    will be loaded.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups, but
    it is probably not very useful when used globally.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOGFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (GOLDED.LOG)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the name of the <name>GoldED+</name> logfile. You should not change the
    default.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOGFORMAT &lt;fd,max,bink,qbbs,db&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (fd)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the log format <name>GoldED+</name> should use when writing to the
    logfile.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOOKUPECHO &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use nodelist lookup when entering the TO:
    name in msgs in echomail areas.
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> *won't* lookup the name if it exactly matches the current
    WHOTO - text. This is a feature, because a lookup of "All" is not
    very useful. :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOOKUPLOCAL &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use nodelist lookup when entering the TO:
    name in msgs in local areas.
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> *won't* lookup the name if it exactly matches the current
    WHOTO - text. This is a feature, because a lookup of "All" is not
    very useful. :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOOKUPNET &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use nodelist lookup when entering the TO:
    name in msgs in netmail areas.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LOOKUPUSERBASE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will attempt to find a matching username in the
    user database if a to-name with wildcards is entered in echo or
    local areas.
      </p>
      <p>
    The userbase lookup feature is not new, but a need arose for an
    option to turn off the lookup. I decided to let the default be to
    disable the lookup. Previously the lookup was always enabled.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MAILINGLIST &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;senderaddress&gt; &lsqb;contribution address&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines one or more mailing lists. When importing e-mail from a
    SOUP packet, <name>GoldED+</name> will look at the Internet address in the
    "Sender" header and if it matches one of the MAILINGLIST's, the
    e-mail will be tossed to the defined area. Note that <name>GoldED+</name>
    supports only participation in, not hosting of mailing lists. The
    contribution address is the destination Internet address for mail
    you write to the mailing list - the address is typically given to
    you when you subscribe to a list. If the contribution address is
    not specified, the senderaddress is assumed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MAILTOSS &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;contribution-address&gt; &lt;pattern&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is acutally the same as MAILINGLIST in disguise with the
    parameters recorded and it also enables the full set of pattern
    matching. The &lt;pattern&gt; can be written exactly as if in the prompt
    for the advanced search feature.
      </p>
      <p>
    Any number of MAILTOSS lines can be given for a particular list,
    if there is for some reason no single way to identify the list.
      </p>
      <p>
    When determining the contribution address, the first MAILTOSS
    (or MAILINGLIST) that matches the echoid is chosen.
      </p>
      <p>
    MAILTOSS and MAILINGLIST can both be used at the same time and for
    the same lists. MAILINGLIST is always the faster, because it looks
    only at specific headerlines. MAILTOSS uses much more complex
    pattern matching and can even match based on message body content.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MAPPATH &lt;server filespec&gt; &lt;local filespec&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword is used to map paths, for example if you have
    different drive letters on a server machine and a workstation. You
    might have your FidoNet mailer and mail processor setup to run
    with the server drive letter (C:), but run <name>GoldED+</name> from a
    workstation where that drive is mapped to a different letter (J:).
    If you use AREAFILE's to get the area configuration for <name>GoldED+</name>,
    you need to use MAPPATH to map the server drive letter to the
    workstation equivalent.
      </p>
      <p>
    Another case might be that you have a setup with DOS-style paths
    and want to run the Linux version with the same <name>GoldED+</name> setup. You
    can then use MAPPATH to map the DOS drive-based paths to Unix
    style paths.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      MAPPATH C: J:
      MAPPATH C:&bsol; /mnt/dos/c/
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: You don't have to worry about backslash/forwardslash in this
    case - they are always mapped automatically to the correct type
    for the operating system.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MEMBER &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines Random System group members. See the Random System chapter
    for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MENUDROPMSG &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the default selection in the "Drop This Msg?" menu.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MENUMARKED &lt;marked/current/previous/default&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (default)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the position of the selection bar in the Marked/Current
    menu.
      </p>
      <p>
      Marked    Set selector to Marked.
      Current   Set selector to Current.
      Previous  Set selector to previously selection.
      Default   Set selector to Marked if there are marked msgs.
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that older versions (before 2.50) used the equivalent of the
    "previous" setting.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MOUSE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    The mouse support in <name>GoldED+</name> is currently not functional, so this
    keyword is ignored.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTDATE &lt;written/arrived/received/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (written)
      </p>
      <p>
    Can be used globally and in groups. This keyword specifies the
    default date shown in the right column in the message list. If
    "no" is specified, the date column is removed and the space used
    to widen the other columns. Personally I prefer to see the
    "arrived" date, which is why I implemented this feature.
      </p>
      <p>
    The key command LISTtoggledate (Ctrl-D) toggles between them.
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that the "arrived" date doubles as the "processed" date for
    messages that are written locally and scanned out from your
    messagebase.
      </p>
      <p>
    Not all messagebase formats supports all three dates. The table
    below shows which messagebase supports which dates:
      </p>
      <p>
                  Written  Arrived  Received
      JAM            X        X        X
      *.MSG          X        X
      Squish         X        X
      Ezycom         X        X
      Hudson         X
      Goldbase       X
      PCBoard        X
      </p>
      <p>
    If a date is not supported, "n/a" (for "not available") is shown
    instead.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTFAST &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    The message lister can operate in two ways, fast or slow. In the
    fast mode, only the message headers are loaded for the list
    information. Depending on the msgbase format and message type,
    some information may not be quite the same when presented in the
    lister because information which is gathered from kludges or other
    control information in the message text will be missing. Most of
    the time this may not be a problem, so if you want speed, chose
    the fast mode (default).
      </p>
      <p>
    The slow mode loads and fully interprets the content of each
    message before the message list is presented. The slowness is most
    noticable when entering the lister and when paging up and down.
    You may want to use the slow mode for areas with Internet
    newsgroups and e-mail, where <name>GoldED+</name> uses the "From" kludge to get
    the real name of the message writer.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTFIRST &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> automatically starts the message lister when
    entering an area.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTHEADER &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> shows the header of the current message when
    you scroll the bar up and down. This is how it worked in previous
    versions. If disabled, <name>GoldED+</name> does not show the header and instead
    uses the screen space to show more messages. By eliminating the
    header display, it is also much faster at scrolling the list.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTPAGEBAR &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Enables or disables a pagebar (scrollbar) in the message list.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTVIEWSUBJ &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will display the full subject in the bottom
    border of the list window. Note that this feature slows down
    scrolling a bit.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGLISTWIDESUBJ &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, the Subject column is made wider by removing the To
    column. This is especially useful in gated Internet newsgroups,
    where the To name is always "All".
      </p>
      <p>
    You can toggle between wide and short subject with Ctrl-B
    (keycommand LISTtogglewidesubj).
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NAMESFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (NAMES.FD)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> supports the "address macro" file supported by FrontDoor
    and Maximus. If no path is specified, the file is first searched
    for in the path from the "FD" environment variable and then the
    GOLDPATH, if the FD variable failed.
      </p>
      <p>
    The address macros are added *after* those defined with the
    ADDRESSMACRO keyword (if any) (see this for details on the
    format).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NICKNAME &lt;your pseudo&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the nick name (pseudo) for the current USERNAME. Can be
    used globally and in random system groups.
    
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODELIST &lt;file&gt; &lsqb;zone/addr&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    Here you define the nodelists that are used by <name>GoldED+</name> and the
    companion nodelist compiler GoldNODE. The nodelists must generally
    be in the standard "St.Louis" nodelist format, but they can also
    contain FrontDoor/Version7 style Boss/Point extensions. The
    default zone is defined by the first ADDRESS or AKA, but can be
    overridden by adding the zone number or a full address after the
    filename. <name>GoldED+</name> currently needs it's own special index files to
    use the nodelists. These index files are created by GoldNODE.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;file&gt;        Nodelist file. If the extension is .999 or a
                    wildcard (".*"), the newest file with a numeric
                    extension is used.
      &lsqb;zone/addr&rsqb;   Default zone or address for the nodelist (if no
                    zone info is present in the list itself).
      </p>
      <p>
    See also the USERLIST keyword, and the Nodelist Browsing chapter.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If you have nodelists with duplicate some of each others
    nodes, the nodelist with the newest or most correct entries should
    be placed LAST, and you should use the -D (remove duplicates)
    option with GoldNODE.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODELISTWARN &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, <name>GoldED+</name> will warn you during startup if one or more
    nodelists are missing. Use NO to disable the warning if it bothers
    you or you delete/pack your nodelists when the nodelists are
    compiled.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: <name>GoldED+</name> can work fine with lookups etc. without nodelists as
    long as it can access its own indexes (GOLDNODE.GX?). Only the
    extra details will be missing.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is where <name>GoldED+</name> and GoldNODE finds the nodelist files and
    indexes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEPATHFD &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the FrontDoor nodelist index files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEPATHIM &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path to the InterMail nodelist index files. This is actually just
    an alias name of the NODEPATHFD keyword, since InterMail and
    FrontDoor uses the same nodelist index files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEPATHV7 &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where <name>GoldED+</name> can find the Version 7 nodelist index files.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: For the Version 7 nodelist index support, <name>GoldED+</name> *requires*
    that the files SYSOP.NDX, NODEX.NDX and NODEX.DAT are present.
    None of these files may be missing and no other filenames are
    supported. Multiple sets of index files are not supported.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEV7FLAGS &lt;flag&gt; &lt;value&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    The Version 7 nodelist index does not by default define any
    nodelist flags except the CM flag. Unfortunately the V7 index does
    not point to the actual nodelist, it only has some bits which are
    marked "reserved" in the specifications. The NODEV7FLAGS keyword
    allows you to define the meaning of each of these bits.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;value&gt; field can be a number or a bit number. Allowed numbers
    are: 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048, 8192 and 16384. Allowed
    bit numbers are: b5, b6, b7, b8, b9, b10, b11, b13 and b14.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      NODEV7FLAGS MO  b5
      NODEV7FLAGS LO  b6
      NODEV7FLAGS MN  b7
      NODEV7FLAGS NC  b8
      NODEV7FLAGS ZEC b9
      NODEV7FLAGS REC b10
      NODEV7FLAGS NEC b11
      NODEV7FLAGS XA  b13
      NODEV7FLAGS XX  b14
      </p>
      <p>
    See also the NODEV7MODEM keyword for other nodelist flags.
      </p>
      <p>
    The nodelist flag bits in the index files are put in by your
    Version 7 nodelist compiler. You must make sure that the nodelist
    flag definitions in your nodelist compiler setup match those in
    your <name>GoldED+</name> setup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        NODEV7MODEM &lt;type&gt; &lt;value&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    The Version 7 nodelist index does not by default define any
    nodelist modem type flags. Unfortunately the V7 index does not
    point to the actual nodelist, it only has some bits which are
    marked "reserved" in the specifications. The NODEV7MODEM keyword
    allows you to define the meaning of each of these bits.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;value&gt; field can be a number or a bit number. Allowed numbers
    are: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64 and 128. Allowed bit numbers are: b0,
    b1, b2, b3, b4, b5, b6 and b7.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      NODEV7MODEM VFC  b0
      NODEV7MODEM HST  b1
      NODEV7MODEM V34T b2
      NODEV7MODEM V32B b3
      NODEV7MODEM V34  b4
      NODEV7MODEM V42B b5
      NODEV7MODEM ZYX  b6
      NODEV7MODEM ISDN b7
      </p>
      <p>
    See also the NODEV7FLAGS keyword for other nodelist flags.
      </p>
      <p>
    The modem type bits in the index files are put in by your Version
    7 nodelist compiler. You must make sure that the modem type
    definitions in your nodelist compiler setup match those in your
    <name>GoldED+</name> setup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ORGANIZATION &lt;text&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the content of the RFC Organization header for Internet
    messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ORIGIN &lt;"string"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    You can define many different origins for use in <name>GoldED+</name>. You can
    select one of the defined origins from the Origin selection menu
    (the READchangeorigin keyword), which is also available from the
    EDITMENU and the EDITSAVEMENU.
      </p>
      <p>
    Leading and/or trailing spaces can be added by enclosing the
    origin string in quotes.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: Origins defined in the Random System will always override
    the global origins defined with this keyword, except when they are
    selected from the EDITSAVEMENU.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        OUTBOUNDPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines a Binkley-style outbound path. Currently only used for
    WaZOO .REQ file requests (see FRQWAZOO). This should be the name
    of your primary outbound without extension.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        OUTPUTFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is the default name of the file written using the
    READwritemsg command.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        OVERLAY &lt;ems/ext/disk&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (ems)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword controls where <name>GoldED+</name> places the overlay swap blocks.
    <name>GoldED+</name> (the standard DOS version) uses the Borland VROOMM dynamic
    overlays to decrease the resident executable code.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the DOSSWAP keyword for a warning note&excl;
      </p>
      <p>
    Ignored by the 386, W32 and OS/2 versions.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PCBOARDPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the default path where <name>GoldED+</name> should look for the PCBoard
    setup files if it can't find the PCBOARD environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PCBOARDUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies the lastread set used in the PCBoard message base.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PERSONALMAIL &lt;startup,allnames&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies options regarding the personal mail scan feature. None
    of them are enabled by default.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the "startup" option is used, <name>GoldED+</name> scans for personal mail
    while doing the startup mail scan.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the "allnames" option is used, <name>GoldED+</name> scans for mail to all the
    USERNAME's instead of only the first. The default is not to scan
    for personal mail at startup and to scan only for the first name.
    This is faster.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      PERSONALMAIL Startup, AllNames
      </p>
      <p>
    The example makes <name>GoldED+</name> scan for personal mail to all your
    USERNAME's at startup.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PLAY &lt;filename.ext/beepnoise&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    See the EVENT keyword for a definition of the PLAY parameters.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTDEVICE &lt;devicename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (PRN)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the name of the device used for printing. PRN is the
    default, but LPTx can also be used. Printers on COMx ports may
    also work, but this has not been tested.
      </p>
      <p>
    Devices are opened in Write-Only text mode. The function has been
    successfully tested to work with two popular peer-to-peer network
    packages.
      </p>
      <p>
    You should NOT use a filename as devicename. Use the filename
    option in the Write menu instead.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTFORMFEED &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Used when printing messages. If enabled, it prints a Form Feed
    (12d) character after each message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTINIT &lt;printstring&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the command string sent to your printer to
    initialize it before the actual printing.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;printstring&gt; can contain items like these:
      </p>
      <p>
      &dollar;Hex          A hexadecimal string.
      &num;Decimal      A decimal (integer) number.
      "String"      Text string, enclosed in double quotes.
      'String'      Text string, enclosed in single quotes.
      Other chars   Ignored.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTLENGTH &lt;lines&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (60)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the number of lines per page for printing. A formfeed is
    printed when every time PRINTLENGTH lines have been printed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTMARGIN &lt;characters&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (80)
      </p>
      <p>
    The right margin to use in printed messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PRINTRESET &lt;printstring&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the command string sent to your printer to
    reset it after printing.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;printstring&gt;  See the PRINTINIT keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTEBLANK &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will put the QUOTESTRING on blank lines in the
    quote. Otherwise blank lines are left blank in quotes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTEBUFFILE &lt;filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    If used, it sets the default filename for the quotebuffer. If no
    path is specified, the GOLDPATH is used.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If this keyword is used in globally (in GOLDED.CFG), it
    effectively disables the automatically named quotebuffers, as
    described in the chapter about the QUOTEBUFMODE keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTEBUFMODE &lt;ask/append/overwrite&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (ask)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specifies what <name>GoldED+</name> should do, if the quotebuffer file exists
    already.
      </p>
      <p>
      Ask         A menu asks you to select append/overwrite/skip.
      Append      Always append, no asking.
      Overwrite   Always overwrite, no asking.
      </p>
      <p>
    The "always overwrite" mode is not very useful I guess, but it's
    there if you need it.
      </p>
      <p>
    The quotebuffer feature automatically creates special filenames
    for the buffer file, using these guidelines:
      </p>
      <p>
      FORMAT    FILENAME      LOCATION
      Fido      GOLDED.QBF    In the directory with the *.MSG's.
      Hudson    GOLDHxxx.QBF  In the HUDSONPATH.
      Squish    filename.QBF  Where the Squish area is.
      Ezycom    GLDxxxxx.QBF  In the EZYCOMMSGPATH.
      JAM       filename.QBF  Where the JAM area is.
      Goldbase  GOLDGxxx.QBF  In the GOLDBASEPATH.
      PCBoard   filename.QBF  Where the PCBoard area is.
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that they all have extension .QBF so that you can easily find
    them.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTECHARS &lsqb;"&rsqb;&lt;chars&gt;&lsqb;"&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines up to 10 chars to recognize in addition to '&gt;' as quote
    string chars. This is most useful in gated Internet newsgroups,
    where chars such as '&verbar;', ':' and ';' are sometimes used instead of
    the '&gt;'.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      Group Internet:
        Member alt.*, comp.*, net.email
        Quotechars "&verbar;:;"
        Username odinn@winboss.dk
      EndGroup
      </p>
      <p>
    The example is similar to the one I use myself (net.email is a
    local netmail area where I import my gated e-mail from
    winboss.dk). The username is my actual Internet address.
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that using additional quotechars such as '&verbar;' and ':' may
    cause odd results when quoting in the cases when they are actually
    NOT used in a message as quotechars. Consider for example quoting
    a smiley :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTECTRL &lt;Tearline,Origin,yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies if you want quote tearline and/or origin in your
    messages.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used in random system groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTEMARGIN &lt;chars&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (70)
      </p>
      <p>
    The margin to which quotes are wrapped. A negative value means
    that the negative value is added to the DISPMARGIN (not
    recommended).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTESPACING &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically add blank lines before and
    after a block of quoted text, if none are present already. This
    improves the readability of some messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTESTRING &lt;quotespec&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (" FL&gt; ")
      </p>
      <p>
    With this keyword you define how you want the quotestring to look
    in your quoted replies.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;quotespec&gt; can contain these characters:
      </p>
      <p>
      F       Replaced with the first letter of the first name.
      M       Replaced with the letters of the middle names.
      L       Replaced with the first letter of the last name.
      &gt;       Required quote-char.
      Spaces  Cosmetics.
      </p>
      <p>
    Other characters are allowed but *not* recommended.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System Groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QUOTEWRAPHARD &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword controls behaviour of quoted text (wrap or reflow).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKBADMSGS &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the area where messages in unknown conferences are put.
    If you get messages tossed here by accident, you must move them
    manually to the correct area. If the badmsgs area is not defined,
    the messages will silently disappear. Messages tossed to the
    badmsgs area will have the control line "AREA:&lt;bbsid&gt;_&lt;confno&gt;" at
    the top of the message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKCONFMAP &lt;bbsid&gt; &lsqb;"&rsqb;&lt;confname&gt;&lsqb;"&rsqb; &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the mapping between the BBSID and conference names in the
    QWK packets and the echoid name of the conference as required by
    <name>GoldED+</name>. You MUST define a mapping for every conference that you
    subscribe to. If you don't, the messages will be tossed to the
    area defined by QWKBADMSGS or disappear. The &lt;bbsid&gt; is the name
    listed on line 5 in CONTROL.DAT after the comma. The &lt;confname&gt; is
    the conference names listed on line 13 and on alternate lines
    onwards in CONTROL.DAT. If a conference name contains embedded
    spaces, the &lt;confname&gt; must be enclosed in double quotes, like
    this: "Main Board". The area &lt;echoid&gt; must be already defined
    either in an AREAFILE or using the AREADEF or AREA keywords.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKEXPORTPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where outgoing QWK reply files (BBSID.MSG) can be placed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKIMPORTPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where incoming QWK packet files (CONTROL.DAT and
    MESSAGES.DAT) can be found.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKOPTIONS &lt;bbsid&gt; &lt;options&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    The &lt;bbsid&gt; is the BBSID (same as the name of the QWK packet) for
    which the options will be active. The &lt;options&gt; can be any or a
    combination of the following, separated by commas or spaces:
      </p>
      <p>
    KLUDGES/NOKLUDGES: Defaults to NOKLUDGES. Specifies whether or not
    to include the FidoNet-style kludges at the top of messages when
    exporting to QWK. NOTE: Unless you enable this option, <name>GoldED+</name> will
    *not* include kludges in your QWK packets. You should check if the
    BBS supports kludges in QWK packets. If it does, please enable
    this option.
      </p>
      <p>
    MIXCASE/NOMIXCASE: Defaults to NOMIXCASE. Specifies whether or not
    the BBS allows mixed upper/lower case in the QWK message headers.
    The default is to uppercase the TO and FROM header fields when
    exporting to QWK packets.
      </p>
      <p>
    RECEIPT/NORECEIPT: Defaults to NORECEIPT. Specifies whether or not
    the BBS supports return receipt requests (RRQ). If the RECEIPT
    option is enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will insert "RRR" at the front of the
    subject field if the RRQ attribute is set on your messages, when
    exporting to QWK packets.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKREPLYLINKER &lt;cmd&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Commandline for a replylinker program to call after QWK import.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QWKTOSSLOG &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Name of a file where <name>GoldED+</name> puts the echoids of each area where
    articles have been imported. The tosslog file is intended to be
    used with a replylinker. If no path is given, it defaults to the
    GOLDPATH.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RA2USERSBBS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (detect)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> supports the two different formats of the Hudson USERS.BBS
    file. With this keyword you can tell <name>GoldED+</name> which format to use.
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, the RA2 format is used. Otherwise if the it is set
    to NO, the Hudson format is used.
      </p>
      <p>
    If this keyword is NOT used, <name>GoldED+</name> tries to detect the format by
    looking at the size of the USERS.BBS file and comparing this to
    the record sizes of the RA2 and Hudson formats.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the size matches one and not the other, the format is detected
    to be of the matching type.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the size matches both (which is quite normal), <name>GoldED+</name> looks for
    the RA environment variable and if found, in the RA config files
    for the RA version.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the size does not match either of them (indicating a possibly
    damaged userfile), <name>GoldED+</name> exits with an error message and writes
    in the log with details of the problem and an advise to run a
    userbase packing utility.
      </p>
      <p>
    If used, this keyword should be placed in the configuration file
    _after_ any AREAFILE keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RCVDISABLESCFM &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
 
    If this keyword defined to "no" then GoldEd will recognize RRq
    (receipt request) and/or CFM (confirmation) flag on messages with
    RCV (received) flag set. After that RRq and CFM flags will be
    resetted. It is useful if your netmail tracker sets RCV flag
    before you actually read messages.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REGISTERKEY
      </head>
      <p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REGISTERNAME
      </head>
      <p>
    These keywords do nothing and won't do anything in the future.
    They were used when <name>GoldED+</name> was a Shareware product.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REM
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword ignores everything behind it. This is useful to
    comment a single line out.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REPLYLINK &lt;chain/direct&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defaults to "direct" for JAM and "chain" for everything else.
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to "direct", <name>GoldED+</name> will link your reply directly to the
    original message. If set to "chain", it will link to the last
    message in the reply chain. The default ("chain") is how <name>GoldED+</name>
    has done it in all previous versions.
      </p>
      <p>
    The advantage of the "direct" linking method is that you can
    easily find the the original message the reply was for. Unless of
    course you have later re-linked using a chain-linking replylinker
    utility. I can recommend the utility SQLINK by Serge Terekhov.
    SQLINK links Squish areas using the MSGID/REPLY kludges and makes
    direct links instead of chain-linking on the subject line like
    most other replylinkers do. There are probably also similar
    replylinkers for other msgbase formats, I just don't know them.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REPLYLINKLIST &lt;fast/full&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (fast)
      </p>
      <p>
    When there is more than one reply to a msg in a JAM or Squish
    area, <name>GoldED+</name> pops up a list of the replies. This keyword affects
    the contents of the list.
      </p>
      <p>
    In the "fast" mode, the list data is based solely on what can be
    found by reading the message header, which is quite fast.
    Unfortunately some software does not (or cannot) fill the header
    with the correct origination address. In that case, set this
    keyword to "full", which makes <name>GoldED+</name> read and scan each message
    for control data to get the origination address. That can be very
    slow.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ROBOTNAME &lt;name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    A "robot" is a program on the Boss or Uplink system which responds
    automatically to netmail messages. Usually the robot links or
    unlinks echomail areas or distributed files.
      </p>
      <p>
    The following ROBOTNAME's are defined by default:
      </p>
      <p>
      AreaFix, AreaMgr, FileFix, AreaLink, AllFix, Raid, GEcho.
      </p>
      <p>
    If you write a netmail message where the TO: name is one of the
    robot names, <name>GoldED+</name> will ignore any template definition, and give
    you a blank msg (possibly with a tearline) to edit.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENBLANKER &lt;seconds&gt; &lsqb;BLACK&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
  (180)
      </p>
      <p>
    If non-zero, <name>GoldED+</name> will blank the screen after the defined number
    of seconds, and put a small moving window up instead. Hitting any
    key (including shiftkeys) will return the screen to normal. If
    zero, no blanking is done.
      </p>
      <p>
    If the additional parameter "BLACK" is given, <name>GoldED+</name> will switch
    the screen completely black instead of showing its own animated
    screenblanker. This is useful if you have a monitor with
    powersaving-features.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      SCREENBLANKER 300 BLACK
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: This feature only works if KEYBMODE is set to "poll".
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENMAXCOL &lt;columns&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    On some systems, <name>GoldED+</name> may no detect the correct display size.
    With this keyword you can force a specific size. If zero,
    autodetect is used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENMAXROW &lt;rows&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    On some systems, <name>GoldED+</name> may not detect the correct display size.
    With this keyword you can force a specific size. If zero,
    autodetect is used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENPALETTE &lt;reg&gt; &lt;value&gt;  OR  &lt;reg&gt; (red green blue)
      </head>
      <p>
    You can change the color palette used in <name>GoldED+</name>. The palette has
    16 color registers, corresponding to the 16 colors from black (0)
    to intense white (15). By changing the values in the palette
    registers, it is possible to make any of the 16 colors a
    completely different color. You can even make the background
    colors intense, without using the intense color feature. There are
    64 different colors to chose from.
      </p>
      <p>
    To configure the palette colors in <name>GoldED+</name>, the SCREENPALETTE
    keyword is used. There are two different syntaxes:
      </p>
      <p>
      SCREENPALETTE &lt;reg&gt; &lt;value&gt;
      SCREENPALETTE &lt;reg&gt; (red green blue)
      </p>
      <p>
    So you can either compose the color value using separate red,
    green, blue components, or directly use a precalculated value. The
    red/green/blue values can only be in the range 0-3.
      </p>
      <p>
    These are the original palette values:
      </p>
      <p>
      SCREENPALETTE    0   (0 0 0)
      SCREENPALETTE    1   (0 0 2)
      SCREENPALETTE    2   (0 2 0)
      SCREENPALETTE    3   (0 2 2)
      SCREENPALETTE    4   (2 0 0)
      SCREENPALETTE    5   (2 0 2)
      SCREENPALETTE    6   (2 2 0)
      SCREENPALETTE    7   (2 2 2)
      SCREENPALETTE    8   (1 1 1)
      SCREENPALETTE    9   (1 1 3)
      SCREENPALETTE   10   (1 3 1)
      SCREENPALETTE   11   (1 3 3)
      SCREENPALETTE   12   (3 1 1)
      SCREENPALETTE   13   (3 1 3)
      SCREENPALETTE   14   (3 3 0)
      SCREENPALETTE   15   (3 3 3)
      </p>
      <p>
    Copy these lines into your GOLDED.CFG and start experimenting&excl; :-)
      </p>
      <p>
    If you have written a program to edit the palette and write a
    <name>GoldED+</name> palette setup file, please don't keep it a secret&excl; :-)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENSHADOWS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, all relevant windows and menus in <name>GoldED+</name> will have
    shadows.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENSIZE &lt;mode&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Auto)
      </p>
      <p>
    Use this to force <name>GoldED+</name> to use either 25 lines, 43/50 lines on
    EGA/VGA, or even special videomodes supported by your SuperVGA
    adapter (modes like 132x44, 100x40 or 80x60).
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;mode&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      Auto        Use detected size.
      25          Switch to 25 lines.
      28          Switch to 28 lines.
      4350        Switch to 43/50 lines.
      Mode &lt;NN&gt;   Switch to videomode NN (a hexadecimal value).
      </p>
      <p>
    Please check your video adapter manual carefully before trying out
    the Mode option. SELECTING A WRONG MODE CAN DAMAGE YOUR MONITOR&excl;&excl;&excl;
      </p>
      <p>
    The Mode option is ignored in the W32 and OS/2 version.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SCREENUSEBIOS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will use standard BIOS calls for screen
    updates. This is VERY slow, and should only be used if really
    needed. Normally <name>GoldED+</name> uses direct screen writes.
      </p>
      <p>
    This feature is only interpreted in the DOS version.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SEARCHFOR &lsqb;"&rsqb;&lt;string&verbar;string&verbar;..&gt;&lsqb;"&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines a set of search strings, separated by the '&verbar;' character.
    The search set defined here is the default when using the Alt-F/Z
    search functions or the marking system.
      </p>
      <p>
    The '&verbar;' character works like an OR operator. That is, the search
    is successful if one OR more of the strings are matched.  The '&amp;'
    character is used as the logical AND operator.
      </p>
      <p>
    Please refer to appropriate section in user's guide for more
    information.
      </p>
      <p>
    Older versions used the ';' semicolon character as a separator,
    but that conflicts with the config reader which treats the
    semicolon in a special way. The semicolon is still accepted as
    separator char like '&verbar;', but if semicolons are used, you MUST
    enclose the search strings with quotes or the config reader will
    treat the first semicolon as the start of a comment.
      </p>
      <p>
    Examples:
      </p>
      <p>
      SEARCHFOR string1
      SEARCHFOR string1&verbar;string2&verbar;stringx
      SEARCHFOR "string1;string2;stringx"
      SEARCHFOR "string 1"&verbar;string2&amp;stringx
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in Random System groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SEMAPHORE &lt;type&gt; &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines "semaphore" files, for use with other mailer
    and/or mail processing software.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;type&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      NETSCAN     Empty netmail scan file (for D'Bridge/FD).
      ECHOSCAN    Empty echomail scan file (for D'Bridge).
      EXPORTLIST  Echoid-list of your new messages.
      IMPORTLIST  Echoid-list of new imported messages.
      </p>
      <p>
    The semaphore files are placed in the AREAPATH, if no path is
    specified.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the example .CFG files for typical semaphore filenames.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: You should not set SEMAPHORE EXPORTLIST to
    %JAMPATH%&bsol;ECHOMAIL.JAM. This is incorrect and probably may cause
    your mail processor to malfunction. Use the JAMPATH keyword
    instead.
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> can handle enviroment variables correctly in paths
    specified in connection with this keyword. For example, if a path
    is defined as %MAIL%&bsol;path&bsol;name, and SET MAIL=C:&bsol;POINT is in
    AUTOEXEC.BAT (or whatever), then <name>GoldED+</name> translates the path to
    C:&bsol;POINT&bsol;path&bsol;name.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: The translation is done at config compile time, so if you
    change the environment variable and haven't changed anything else
    that would cause <name>GoldED+</name> to recompile it's config, you must force
    it with the -F or -FF command parameter.
      </p>
      <p>
    In addition, <name>GoldED+</name> itself can watch for some semaphore files and
    execute the appropiate function if it is in the arealist screen.
    This can be useful if you have a multitasking system and you want
    to "tell" <name>GoldED+</name> that there is new mail in some areas and <name>GoldED+</name>
    should update its display correctly.
      </p>
      <p>
    In detail, there are
      </p>
      <p>
      EXITNOW &lt;file&gt;          Quit immediately.
      SCANALL &lt;file&gt;          Scan all areas
      SCANNETMAIL &lt;file&gt;      Scan all netmail areas
      SCANTHIS &lt;file&gt;         Scan the areas listed in the file
      PMSCANALL &lt;file&gt;        PM-scan all areas
      PMSCANNETMAIL &lt;file&gt;    PM-scan all netmail areas
      PMSCANTHIS &lt;file&gt;       PM-scan the areas listed in the file
      QWKIMPORT &lt;file&gt;        Import QWK packets
      QWKEXPORT &lt;file&gt;        Export to QWK
      SOUPIMPORT &lt;file&gt;       Import SOUP packets
      SOUPEXPORT &lt;file&gt;       Export to SOUP
      IDLETIME &lt;seconds&gt;      Number of seconds between checks
      </p>
      <p>
    If SEMAPHORE IDLETIME is defined and non-zero, then <name>GoldED+</name> will
    check this list of semaphore files when the user has not pressed a
    key in the specified number of seconds. The semaphores are only
    checked when the arealist screen is active. If a semaphore file is
    found, the file is deleted and then the action is performed. If no
    path is given for the files, the GOLDPATH is assumed.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      SEMAPHORE SCANALL SCANALL.NOW
      SEMAPHORE IDLETIME 30
      </p>
      <p>
    This causes <name>GoldED+</name> to check every 30 seconds for the SCANALL.NOW
    file in the GOLDPATH, and scan all areas if it's found.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SERIALNO
      </head>
      <p>
    Everything mentioned above about REGISTERKEY and REGISTERNAME
    applied to this keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
<div2 id=SHAREMODE><head>SHAREMODE &lt;yes/no/mode&num;&gt;</head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> opens all files in a SHARE.EXE compatible mode.
      </p>
      <p>
    The default share-mode is "Share Deny None", but another may be
    specified directly if you give the mode number as the keyword
    parameter (decimal).
      </p>
      <p>
    It is normally not necessary to change the default.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUNDPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to the GOLDPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    Tells <name>GoldED+</name> where to find the sound files for the PLAY and EVENT
    keywords.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPBADMSGS &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the area where "bad messages" from SOUP packets can be
    tossed. It should be an echomail or newsgroup area.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPEMAIL &lt;echoid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the area where Internet e-mails can be tossed. It must
    be a netmail or e-mail area.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPEXPORTMARGIN &lt;margin&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (76)
      </p>
      <p>
    This is the margin that <name>GoldED+</name> will hard-wrap to when exporting to
    SOUP packets. If you're getting complaints that your lines are too
    long, you may want to set this to 70 or 60.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: You should NOT enable EDITHARDTERM in email and newsgroups
    that are exported to SOUP. If you do, your messages will probably
    be exported with short line "droppings" after the wrapping margin.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPEXPORTPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where outgoing SOUP reply packet files (REPLIES and
    GOLD*.MSG) can be placed.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPIMPORTPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Path where the incoming SOUP packet files (AREAS and *.MSG) can be
    found.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPNEWSRCFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Name with full path of the NEWSRC file which lists the newsgroups
    you are connected to. <name>GoldED+</name> uses the list to mark the matching
    areas as newsgroups. These will then be scanned for outgoing mail
    when starting a SOUP export.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPREPLYLINKER &lt;cmd&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Commandline for a replylinker program to call after SOUP import.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPREPLYTO &lt;internet-address&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Internet-Address other users should use when they respond to your
    mails (Reply-To Headerline).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOUPTOSSLOG &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Name of a file where <name>GoldED+</name> puts the echoids (newsgroup names) of
    each area where articles have been imported. The tosslog file is
    intended to be used with a replylinker. If no path is given, it
    defaults to the GOLDPATH.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SQUISHDIRECT &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, then in Squish areas, if the DIR (direct) attribute is
    set on a message, <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically set both the CRA
    (crash) and HLD (hold) attributes when saving the message.
      </p>
      <p>
    According to the Squish Developers Kit, this is the way to tell
    SquishMail that a message should be routed direct, because
    SquishMail does not recognize the FLAGS kludge where the DIR
    attribute is normally found. This keyword should probably only be
    used with SquishMail (the mail processor) and then only when used
    with Binkley or other so-called "static" mailers. DON'T use it
    with FrontDoor&excl;
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SQUISHSCAN &lt;api/quick&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (quick)
      </p>
      <p>
    Specfies whether to use a quick scanning method which only looks
    in the .SQI files. This will normally work fine, but may fail
    slightly in obscure cases, especially when used with Squish 1.0x
    or programs using the old version of the MSGAPI. If you suspect
    problems, try to set this keyword to "api", which tells <name>GoldED+</name> to
    look in the .SQD file for an exact count of active msgs in the
    .SQI file.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: <name>GoldED+</name> does NOT use the original MSGAPI by Scott Dudley.
    Since version 2.50, a completely rewritten implementation is used.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SQUISHUSERNO &lt;index&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    This sets the lastread index number for the Squish *.SQL lastread
    files. Lowest number is 0 (zero), highest is (in theory) 65534.
      </p>
      <p>
    If used, this disables the use of USER.BBS to find the index
    number, and will in effect also stop <name>GoldED+</name> from creating USER.BBS
    or any new entries in it (useful in a single-user point system).
    If a Squish msgbase is shared between several users, and you don't
    want to have a USER.BBS (recommended in such a case), each user
    must have a unique SQUISHUSERNO in their GOLDED/GOLDAREA.CFG.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SQUISHUSERPATH &lt;path&gt;&lsqb;file&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines the path where <name>GoldED+</name> can find and use/create
    your USER.BBS file, which is used in connection with the Squish
    area lastreads. You can also specify the exact filename if not
    USER.BBS.
      </p>
      <p>
    If this path or filename is not defined, <name>GoldED+</name> will instead take
    the one specified with AREAFILE Squish or AREAFILE Maximus
    (whichever comes first), or failing that, use the MAXIMUS or
    SQUISH environment variables. If even that fails, the AREAPATH or
    GOLDPATH is used. If AREAFILE Maximus is used, <name>GoldED+</name> gets the
    filename from MAX.PRM.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        STATUSLINECLOCK &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will display a clock in HH:MM:SS format in the
    right side of the statusline.
      </p>
      <p>
    You can redefine the clock format with the language keyword
    ST_STATUSLINETIMEFMT in GOLDLANG.CFG. See the Language Definition
    chapter to details about the date/time codes you can use.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: The clock will only run continuously if KEYBMODE is set to
    "poll".
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        STATUSLINEHELP &lt;yes/no/nologo&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, <name>GoldED+</name> will replace the "logo" in the left side of
    the statusline with a text saying "F1 Help". This is for use in
    "point package" setups where the user may be a complete novice,
    maybe even to computers, and who needs to be guided to the help
    screens. The "F1 Help" text is configurable with the
    ST_STATUSLINEHELP language keyword (put it in GOLDLANG.CFG).
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to NO, <name>GoldED+</name> will display it's logo (name and version) in
    the left side of the statusline.
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to NOLOGO, <name>GoldED+</name> will not display anything in the left
    side. The middle part is extended to fill the space on the left
    side.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        STYLECODES &lt;yes/hide/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (hide)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled (yes or hide), <name>GoldED+</name> will highlight text surrounded by
    one of the following characters in a different color: '*' for bold
    text, '/' for italic text, '_' for underlined text and '&num;' for
    reversed text. These are commonly used "stylecodes" which add
    emphasis to the text, without making it harder to read. Examples:
    *This* will be shown in bold color, /this/ in italic color and
    _this_ in underlined color. It is also possible to combine styles,
    such as */this/*, in bolditalic color.
      </p>
      <p>
    The differ in yes and hide is that hide strips surrounding
    stylecodes.
      </p>
      <p>
    Described values are specific to -asa. Official vesions starting
    at 3.00beta3 has bug in implementation which causes GoldEd to
    ignore this keyword. Realization of this keyword in -asa versions
    compatible with official versions prior to 3.00beta3.
      </p>
      <p>
    To define the highlight colors, use COLOR STYLECODE. See the color
    chapter for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        STYLECODEPUNCT &lt;"charlist"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (" &excl;&bsol;&quot;&dollar;%&amp;()+,.:;&lt;=&gt;@&lsqb;&bsol;&rsqb;^`&lcub;&verbar;&rcub;~")
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        STYLECODESTOPS &lt;"charlist"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  ("")
      </p>
      <p>
    The STYLECODEPUNCT keyword specifies all the characters that
    punctuates words. The stylecode line parser scans forward until it
    meets one of these characters and then looks back to see if it
    found a word with stylecodes around it.
      </p>
      <p>
    The STYLECODESTOPS keyword specifies characters which, if found
    within the word to be highlighted, causes the highlight to be
    cancelled.
      </p>
      <p>
    These keywords were added to allow users to experiment with the
    characters for punctuation and stop for stylecode sequences. This
    is mostly to illustrate the point that it is almost impossible to
    make stylecodes work in every case you want without getting a lot
    of false highlights too. Please keep in mind that stylecodes are,
    and always will be, a primitive and very error-prone method for
    adding highlights to message text. The defaults are:
      </p>
      <p>
      STYLECODEPUNCT " &excl;&bsol;"&dollar;%&amp;()+,.:;&lt;=&gt;@&lsqb;&bsol;&rsqb;^`&lcub;&verbar;&rcub;~"
      STYLECODESTOPS  ""
      </p>
      <p>
    Note that the double-quote (") must have the backslash (&bsol;) in
    front of it - the sequence (&bsol;") is translated to a single (").
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SWAPPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to TEMPPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines where the swap file will be placed in case of disk
    swapping in DOS shells. It is recommended that this points to a
    RAM disk, if available. <name>GoldED+</name> needs 3-500k free disk space for
    the swapfile, depending on the overlay buffer size specified with
    the -O commandline switch.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword is only interpreted by the DOS platform version.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TAGLINE &lt;string or filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines one or more taglines. A tagline collection filename can be
    specified if prepended with an '@' character, like this: TAGLINE
    @TAGLINE.LST. If a tagline collection file is used, <name>GoldED+</name> will
    create an index file for it the first time it is used or any time
    the file is edited. The index file has the same name, but
    extension ".SDX". The index file is an array of 32-bit long
    integers, containing the offset of each line in the tagline
    collection file.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
    Taglines defined in the Random System *always* overrides the
    default global taglines defined with this keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TAGLINECHAR &lt;char&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  ('.')
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the character <name>GoldED+</name> uses when putting a tagline in your
    message. The default is '.'. You should not change this default.
    <name>GoldED+</name> itself only recognizes taglines with '.' or '_'
    (underscore).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TAGLINESUPPORT &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    Allows you to turn off the internal tagline support, in case it
    turns out to be too buggy or if you want to use one of the many
    good external tagline utilties out there instead.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TASKTITLE &lt;string&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (@longpid)
      </p>
      <p>
    Sets window title in Win32 and OS/2 versions, ignored in other.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TEARLINE &lt;string&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (@longpid @version)
      </p>
      <p>
    Here you can define your default tearline. The tearline can be up
    to 76 chars long (excluding the leading "--- "), but beware that
    policies (such as FidoNet ECHOPOL1) may set a significantly lower
    limit (around 30).
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
    Tearlines defined in the Random System *always* overrides the
    default tearline defined with this keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    If your tearline does not contain at least the string "GoldED" or
    "GED", <name>GoldED+</name> will automatically insert it's PID kludge. See also
    description of USEPID keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TEMPLATE &lt;file&gt; &lsqb;"desc"&rsqb; &lsqb;match-address&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
  (GOLDED.TPL)
      </p>
      <p>
    You can define many different template files. The templates can be
    switched using the READchangetemplate (Ctrl-T) popup menu or the
    EDITMENU.
      </p>
      <p>
    The optional "desc" can be used to give the templates more
    meaningful names like "International template" instead of
    non-obvious names like "GOLDED.TPL". If a description is used, it
    must appear before the match-address. It must always be enclosed
    in quotes, even if it is only one word.
      </p>
      <p>
    The match-address is an address mask (wildcards allowed) which can
    be used to tell <name>GoldED+</name> to select that template if the destination
    address on a message you write matches the match-address. The
    matching will only take place if the TEMPLATEMATCH keyword has
    been enabled.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group. In
    Random System groups, only the &lt;file&gt; parameter can be used.
      </p>
      <p>
    Templates defined in Random System groups always override the
    globally defined templates, except when selected from the EDITMENU
    or when automatic template matching is in effect.
      </p>
      <p>
    To override the automatic template matching, start by selecting a
    template manually using the READchangetemplate (Ctrl-T) command or
    the EDITMENU.
      </p>
      <p>
    Currently only one match-address per template can be specified,
    but you can specify several TEMPLATE keywords for the same file.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      // Use DANSK.TPL for messages to Danish nodes/points.
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:23/*
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:234/*
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:235/*
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:236/*
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:237/*
      TEMPLATE DANSK.TPL "Danish" 2:238/*
      </p>
      <p>
      // Use INTERNET.TPL for messages to the WinBoss gateway
      TEMPLATE INTERNET.TPL "Internet" 2:230/9316
      </p>
      <p>
      // Use ENGLISH.TPL for messages to everywhere else
      TEMPLATE ENGLISH.TPL "English" *
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TEMPLATEMATCH &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will select a template which matches the
    destination address on messages that you write. This keyword can
    be used globally or in random system groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TEMPLATEPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (defaults to the GOLDPATH)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the default path for msg templates. Use this if you want
    to place templates in a path separate from the GOLDPATH.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TEMPPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the directory where temporary files are placed by <name>GoldED+</name>
    and GoldNODE.
      </p>
      <p>
    This path should *NOT* point to a RAM disk or other volatile
    media&excl;
      </p>
      <p>
    GoldNODE uses this path to store a temporary file which can become
    as large as the largest index file (GOLDNODE.GXN), so again, don't
    point it to a small RAM disk. If GoldNODE cannot find a TEMPPATH,
    it will use the NODEPATH instead.
      </p>
    </div2>
<div2 id=TIMEOUT><head>TIMEOUT &lt;seconds&gt;</head>
      <p>
  (0)
      </p>
      <p>
    Similar to the screen blanking (SCREENBLANKER) feature, <name>GoldED+</name> can
    auto-exit after a specified period of time. Useful if you are in a
    hurry (or didn't get enough sleep last night ;-), and run <name>GoldED+</name>
    from your mailer shell. The timeout value can be overridden with
    the -T commandline option.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: This feature only works if KEYBMODE is set to "poll".
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TIMEOUTSAVEMSG &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to YES, <name>GoldED+</name> behaves as usual: It saves the (perhaps
    partially written) msg text in the internal editor to the msgbase
    and exits. If set to NO, <name>GoldED+</name> will save the msg text in
    GOLDED.MSG just as if EDITAUTOSAVE function was in use and the
    power went out. Next time you started <name>GoldED+</name> and entered a msg, it
    would detect the "lost" msg and ask you if it should be continued.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TITLESTATUS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled then brief status will be added to title. (Win32 and
    OS/2 versions only)
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TWITMODE &lt;mode&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (Blank)
      </p>
      <p>
    In <name>GoldED+</name> you can define several "Twit" names, addresses or
    subjects. With this keyword you can specify the action taken when
    a Twit message is encountered.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;mode&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      Show    Show twit messages.
      Blank   Blank twit messages.
      Skip    Skip twit messages, unless to your USERNAME's.
      Ignore  Skip twit messages, always.
      Kill    Deletes twit messages, *without* confirmation&excl;
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TWITNAME &lt;name/address&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    With this keyword, you can specify "Twit" names and/or addresses.
    When a Twit name/address is detected, the TWITMODE setting will
    determine the action taken.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TWITSUBJ &lt;"string"&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    With this keyword, you can specify "Twit" subjects. When a Twit
    subject is detected, the TWITMODE setting will determine the
    action taken. The subject string is searched in the entire subject
    text, so you can specify a partial twit subject. Twit subjects are
    limited to maximum 35 characters.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TWITTO &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> will check both from- and to-names when
    checking for twitnames. By default only the from-names are
    checked.
      </p>
      <p>
    This is a global keyword and won't work as intended if used in a
    random system group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USECHARSET &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If set to no then GoldEd will not generate @CHRS and @CHARSET
    kludges.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USEFLAGS &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> inserts the FLAGS kludge for certain extended
    attributes, as defined in FSC-0053 by Joaquim H. Homrighausen, and
    supported by FrontDoor, D'Bridge, IMail and other modern software.
    <name>GoldED+</name> uses FLAGS to emulate the Hold and Freq attributes which
    are not defined in the Hudson message format.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USEFWD &lt;yes/no/ask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, <name>GoldED+</name> inserts the FSC-0092 kludges introduced by the
    author of FleetStreet, Michael Hohner. These are
      </p>
      <p>
      FWDFROM   The original From-Name
      FWDORIG   The original From-Aka
      FWDTO     The original TO-Field
      FWDDEST   The original TO-aka (only in netmails)
      FWDSUBJ   The original subject
      FWDAREA   The original areatag
      FWDMSGID  The original MSGID (useful for reply-linking)
      </p>
      <p>
    When forwarding, <name>GoldED+</name> now adds these kludges, unless the
    original message already contains them, in which case they are
    preserved. When doing a normal reply (Alt-Q or Alt-R) to a message
    with the FWD kludges, <name>GoldED+</name> replies to the forwarder. To reply to
    the from-name in the forwarded message, use the comment-reply
    function (Alt-G). If the message contains the FWDAREA kludge, you
    can reply to the forwarder in the original area (Alt-N) or reply
    to the from-name in the original area (Alt-B). Note that it is not
    possible to reply to the to-name of a message with the FWD
    kludges, and it is also not possible to reply to the to-name of
    the forwarded message (the FWDTO name).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USEINTL &lt;type&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    The INTL kludge is normally only inserted in netmail messages, if
    the origination zone is different from the destination zone (the
    "Auto" setting), but on systems with many AKA's in the mailer, it
    might be useful/necessary to add it ALWAYS (the "Yes" setting).
    The "No" option should never be used.
      </p>
      <p>
    The &lt;type&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
      <p>
      Auto  Only insert in inter-zone netmail.
      Yes   Always insert. Recommended and default.
      No    Never insert.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USEMSGID &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, the MSGID kludge is inserted in netmail and echomail,
    and the REPLY kludge is inserted when replying to a msg with a
    MSGID.
      </p>
      <p>
    The MSGID kludge is defined in FidoNet document FTS-9.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USEPID &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no if GoldEd mentioned in tearline, yes otherwise)
      </p>
      <p>
    If disabled then @PID kludge will not be used in your messages
    regardless of tearline contents.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USERLIST &lt;file&gt; &lsqb;zone/addr&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    In addition to normal nodelist support, <name>GoldED+</name> also supports the
    "FIDOUSER.LST" style userlist format. The default zone is defined
    by the first ADDRESS or AKA, but can be overridden by adding the
    zone number or a full address after the filename.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;file&gt;        Userlist file in FIDOUSER.LST format.
      &lsqb;zone/addr&rsqb;   Default address for the userlist (if no zone info
                    is present).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USERLISTFILE &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (GOLDED.LST)
      </p>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> can generate a list of all users in the current area. This
    keyword defines the default name of the FIDOUSER.LST style
    userlist output file generated with the READmakeuserlist command.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USERNAME &lt;name&gt;&lsqb;&lsqb;,&rsqb;&lt; &gt;address&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
    You can define many different names/aliases. When <name>GoldED+</name> finds an
    un-received message to one of your USERNAME's, it is marked as
    received. Useful if you use alias names in some conferences. It is
    possible to change the current name using the READchangeusername
    popup menu.
      </p>
      <p>
    For msgbase formats with an associated user database, <name>GoldED+</name> uses
    the *first* defined USERNAME to look in the user database for
    which lastread record to use. If your name is not found, it is
    added and a new lastread record created.
      </p>
      <p>
    Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      USERNAME Odinn Sorensen, 2:236/77.999
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        USETZUTC &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Activates usage of TZUTC kludge in your messages. You should
    properly setup timezone information in your OS. For example,
    in DOS you should set environment variable TZ to something
    like this:
      </p>
      <p>
      TZ=MSK-3MSD,M3.5.0/02:00,M10.5.0/03:00
      </p>
      <p>
    This line valid for Moscow, Russia.
      </p>
      <p>
    This option could be used in random system groups.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        UUDECODEPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Specifies the path where files are placed when using the uudecode
    feature. Files are placed in current directory if a path is not
    specified.
      </p>
      <p>
    The specified path *must* exist &excl;
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        VIEWHIDDEN &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    Hidden lines are "unknown" kludge lines. If enabled, hidden lines
    will be displayed (in a different color) when reading msgs.
      </p>
      <p>
    A hidden line is defined as a line which has the FidoNet kludge
    char (^a, ASCII 1) as the first char and is not on the list of
    internally or user defined known kludges.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
    IMPORTANT NOTE:
      </p>
      <p>
    In some conferences the hidden lines are used to give witty
    comment "between the lines" in the plain text, but generally it is
    considered a bad practice and should be avoided because it may
    cause severe technical problems if a witty comment in a hidden
    line happens to match a (perhaps experimentally) defined kludge
    somewhere. It should also be noted that hidden lines are not kept
    in their original places when used in the JAM msgbase. This is due
    to the way the JAM specification stores FidoNet kludges.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        VIEWKLUDGE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (no)
      </p>
      <p>
    If enabled, known kludge lines will be displayed (in a different
    color) when reading msgs.
      </p>
      <p>
    Known kludges are those defined internally in <name>GoldED+</name> plus those
    defined with the KLUDGE keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        VIEWQUOTE &lt;yes/no&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (yes)
      </p>
      <p>
    This is an experimental feature. It is similar to the VIEWHIDDEN
    and VIEWKLUDGE keywords, but for quoted text. I implemented it
    because I was annoyed with the excessive quoting often seen in
    Internet newsgroups. When this keyword is set to NO, <name>GoldED+</name>
    attempts to trim down the quotes so that only the first line of
    each quote block is shown. It is not always successful, sometimes
    the result is not so useful.
      </p>
      <p>
    A key command has been added to supplement this feature:
    READtogglequote. Suggested key assignment: Ctrl-V. Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      ^V  READtogglequote
      </p>
      <p>
    Try it out if you are annoyed with excessive quotes.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        WHOTO &lt;name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This name is inserted in the TO: name field, when entering new
    messages (not replies) in echomail or local areas.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        WILDCATUSERNO &lt;userno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the lastread set used in the WildCat&excl; 4.x message base.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATCHARSET &lt;importid&gt; &lt;exportid&gt; &lt;file&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines character set translation table files.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;importid&gt;    Charset import identifier.
      &lt;exportid&gt;    Charset export identifier.
      &lt;file&gt;        Charset translation table file.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the Character Translation chapter for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATESCSET &lt;import&gt; &lt;export&gt; &lt;escfile&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This keyword defines escape sequence translation table files.
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;importid&gt;    Escset import identifier.
      &lt;exportid&gt;    Escset export identifier.
      &lt;file&gt;        Escape sequence translation table file.
      </p>
      <p>
    See the Character Translation chapter for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATEXPORT &lt;charsetid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Defines the export charset for your messages. See the Character
    Translation chapter for details.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
      <p>
    It can also be used in templates (the @xlatexport token).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATIMPORT &lt;charsetid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (IBMPC)
      </p>
      <p>
    Defines the local charset for your machine. See the Character
    Translation chapter for details.
      </p>
      <p>
    This keyword can be used globally and in a Random System group.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATLOCALSET &lt;charsetid&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (IBMPC)
      </p>
      <p>
    Use this keyword to specify the actual physical charset in effect
    for text screen display. This was previously the hardcoded value
    IBMPC, corresponding to the IBM codepage 437 (or the nordic
    edition 865).
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: All charset translation files must translate from and to the
    charset identified with the XLATLOCALSET keyword&excl;
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XLATPATH &lt;path&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is the path where <name>GoldED+</name> tries to find the XLATCHARSET and
    XLATESCSET files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ZONEGATING &lt;yes/no/ask&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  (ask)
      </p>
      <p>
    When writing a netmail message to a destination in another zone,
    you can either send the message directly (No) or via the local
    ZoneGate (Yes). You can also be consulted each time (Ask). <name>GoldED+</name>
    won't ask if Cra or Hld attribute is set.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Obsolete Keywords
    </head>
      <p>
This is a list of keywords which were used in various older versions.
These keywords are now obsolete, either because they have been renamed
or replaced, or if they no longer have any function. Most of the
keywords are still active and remapped to the new names.
      </p>
      <p>
To check if you have obsolete keywords in your setup, run <name>GoldED+</name> with
the -F -D commandline parameters. Then if you get a number of "Unknown
keyword" warnings, you should replace the old keywords with the new
ones or remove them.
      </p>
      <p>
  Old keyword:    New keyword:
      </p>
      <p>
  AREAAUTOFREQ    AREAFREQTO
  AREABADMSGS     SOUPBADMSGS
  AREASORT        AREALISTSORT
  ASSIGNTO        MEMBER
  AUTOATTACH      EDITAUTOATTACH
  BEEPFACTOR      (removed)
  BLANKTIME       SCREENBLANKER
  BOARDNOS        (removed)
  CCATTRIB        ATTRIBSCC
  CCLIST          CARBONCOPYLIST
  CFMATTRIB       ATTRIBSCFM
  CHANGEDATE      EDITCHANGEDATE
  CHANGEPROMPT    (removed)
  CHARSET         XLATCHARSET
  CLEARKEYS       (removed)
  COLOUR          COLOR
  COMMENTNOISE    BEEPCOMMENT
  COOKIEFILE      (removed)
  CRLFTERM        EDITCRLFTERM
  DELORIG         ASKDELORIG
  DISPMSGLIST     MSGLISTFIRST
  DISPMSGLISTFAST MSGLISTFAST
  DISPSTYLECODES  STYLECODES
  ECHOATTRIB      ATTRIBSECHO
  ECHOINFO        CTRLINFOECHO
  EDITMARGIN      (removed)
  EDITORVERSION   (removed)
  ELIMSNOW        (removed)
  ESCSET          XLATESCSET
  EXCLAREA        AREAEXCL
  EXPORTCHARSET   XLATEXPORT
  EXTKEYS         (removed)
  FIDOLASTREADNO  FIDOUSERNO
  FIELDCLEAR      EDITFIELDCLEAR
  FILECHECK       (removed)
  FILECHECKALL    (removed)
  FREEAREA        (removed)
  FREETEAR        (removed)
  GOLDEDCFM       CONFIRMFILE
  GOLDEDLOG       LOGFILE
  GOLDEDLST       USERLISTFILE
  GOLDEDMSG       EDITORFILE
  GOLDEDNAM       NAMESFILE
  GOLDEDPRN       OUTPUTFILE
  GOLDHELP        (no longer documented)
  GOLDKEYS        (no longer documented)
  GOLDLANG        (no longer documented)
  GOLDRAND        (no longer documented)
  GOLDXLAT        (no longer documented)
  HARDLINE        EDITHARDLINE
  HARDLINES       EDITHARDLINES
  HWMARKS         (removed)
  INCLAREA        AREAINCL
  INTERNALEDITOR  EDITINTERNAL
  LASTREAD        FIDOLASTREAD
  LASTREADUSER    FIDOUSERNO
  LISTWRAP        (removed)
  LOCALATTRIB     ATTRIBSLOCAL
  LOCALCHARSET    XLATIMPORT
  LOCALHIGHLIGHT  (removed)
  LOCALINFO       CTRLINFOLOCAL
  LOCALNOISE      (removed)
  MAPDRIVE        MAPPATH
  MATCHAKA        AKAMATCH
  MAXCOLS         SCREENMAXCOL
  MAXMSGSIZE      EDITMSGSIZE
  MAXROWS         SCREENMAXROW
  MIXCASE         EDITMIXCASE
  MULTIQBBS       (removed)
  NETATTRIB       ATTRIBSNET
  NETINFO         CTRLINFONET
  NETTEAR         CTRLINFONET performs similar function
  NEXTAREA        AREANEXT
  NEXTMSGS        (removed)
  NODELISTPAGEBAR (removed)
  NOISEFACTOR     (removed)
  OVERLAYEMS      OVERLAY performs similar function
  OVERLAYEXT      OVERLAY performs similar function
  PAGEBAR         (removed)
  QBBSINCRESCAN   (removed)
  QBBSPATH        HUDSONPATH
  QBBSREBUILD     (removed)
  QBBSSCAN        (removed)
  QMSGPATH        HUDSONPATH
  REALMSGNO       (removed)
  REBUILD         (removed)
  RENAREA         AREARENAME
  REPLYRE         EDITREPLYRE
  RIGHTMARGIN     DISPMARGIN
  SAVEMENU        EDITSAVEMENU
  SAVETIME        EDITAUTOSAVE
  SAYBIBI         (removed)
  SCANAREA        AREASCAN
  SCREENELIMSNOW  (removed)
  SCREENUSEANSI   (removed)
  SHADOWS         (removed)
  SHARE           SHAREMODE
  SHOWTWITS       TWITMODE
  SIGNALFILE      SEMAPHORE
  SOUNDDEVICE     (removed)
  SPACEQUOTES     (removed)
  SPELLCHECKER    EDITSPELLCHECK
  STACKKEYS       KEYBSTACK
  STARTECHO       AREASTART
  SWAPALL         DOSSWAP
  SYSOP           USERNAME
  TABSIZE         DISPTABSIZE
  TAGLINEFILE     (removed)
  TIMESLICE       (removed)
  TIMEZONEOFFSET  USETZUTC performs similar function
  UNDELETELINES   EDITUNDELETE
  USEBIOS         SCREENUSEBIOS
  XPLIST          CROSSPOSTLIST
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Location Dependent Configuration Keywords
    </head>
      <p>
The following configuration keywords are location dependent and should
be placed in a particular order in the configuration file(s). Keywords
that are *not* listed can be placed anywhere you want.
      </p>
      <p>
The keywords are listed in groups of those that depend on each other.
They are listed in the recommended order within each group. The order
between the groups is not important, with one noted exception.
      </p>
      <p>
Name/Address/Areas:
  USERNAME
  ADDRESS
  AKA
  ATTRIBSNET      Specifies default attributes for AREAFILE etc.
  ATTRIBSECHO     As above.
  ATTRIBSLOCAL    As above.
  FIDOMSGTYPE
  PCBOARDPATH     Recommended if you use PCBoard.
  MAPPATH
  AREARENAME      Rename occurs before AREAEXCL/INCL.
  AREAEXCL
  AREAINCL
  AREAISEMAIL
  AREAISNEWS
  AREAPATH        Default path for the AREAFILE's.
  AREAFILE
  RA2USERSBBS     Overrides AREAFILE RemoteAccess.
  AREADESC        Add description and more to some AREAFILE's.
  AREA            Overrides areas in AREAFILE's.
  AREADEF         As above.
      </p>
      <p>
Paths:
  GOLDPATH
  TEMPPATH        MUST be in GOLDED.CFG. Used only by GoldNODE.
  SWAPPATH
      </p>
      <p>
Nodelists:        MUST be below ADDRESS/AKA and ONLY in GOLDED.CFG&excl;
  NODEPATH
  NODELIST
  USERLIST
  EXCLUDENODES    Remember to replace "ALL" with '*'.
  INCLUDENODES    As above.
      </p>
      <p>
Colors:
  INTENSECOLORS   Selects a default intense colorset if enabled.
  COLORSET        Selects a default colorset.
  COLOR
      </p>
      <p>
External utils:
  EXTERNOPTIONS
  EXTERNUTIL
      </p>
      <p>
Character translation:
  XLATPATH
  XLATCHARSET
  XLATESCSET
      </p>
      <p>
Random System:
  GROUP           Starts a group.
  MEMBER          Defines areas that are members of the group.
  &lt;Group Items&gt;   See the Random System chapter for a list.
  ENDGROUP        Ends a group.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
<div1 id=MESSAGEATTRS><head>Message Attributes Reference</head>
      <p>
This is a list and description of all message attributes that are
supported by <name>GoldED+</name> in the keywords that accept attribute settings or
can be displayed in the header.
      </p>
      <p>
A/S   Archive/sent.
ARQ   Audit request.
ATT   File attached.
CFM   Confirmation receipt requested.
COV   Fax cover letter.
CRA   Crash - high priority mail.
DEL   Deleted.
DIR   Direct. Don't route this message.
FAX   Fax image attached.
FRQ   File request.
GRP   Group message.
HIR   Fax hi-resolution image.
HLD   Hold for pickup.
HUB   Host- or Hub-route message.
IMM   Immediate - Send message NOW&excl;
K/S   Kill/sent. Delete message automatically after it is sent.
KFS   Kill/file/sent. Delete attached files after they are sent.
LET   Fax letterhead.
LOC   Local. Message was written on your system.
LOK   Lock. Prevents send/delete/purge/editing.
ORP   Orphan. Could not be sent because destination node is unknown.
PRN   Msg has been printed. Specific for Squish (bitvalue 00040000h).
PVT   Private. Message may only be read by the addressee and author.
R/O   Read only. Used in area definitions to prevent writing.
RCV   Received. Read by the addressee.
RRC   Return receipt.
RRQ   Return receipt requested.
RSV   FTS-1 reserved (unused) attribute.
SIG   Fax signature.
SNT   Sent. Message has been sent or exported from the msgbase.
TFS   Truncate/file/sent. Truncate files to zero length when sent.
TRS   Transit. Message passing through, not for you.
UNS   Unsent message.
URQ   Update file request.
XMA   Xmail. Attach does not conform to the ARCmail 0.60 standard.
ZON   Zonegate. Route through zonegate if possible.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
<div1 id=AREACONFIGURATION><head>Area Configuration</head>
      <p>
GoldED offers a wide variety of methods for defining message areas.
You can define each area manually in the GOLDED.CFG file (or an
INCLUDE'ed GOLDAREA.CFG file), or you can tell <name>GoldED+</name> to read the area
setup files of many popular BBS/mailer/mail processor packages.
      </p>
      <p>
For manual definition of areas, use the AREA or AREADEF (recommened)
keywords.
      </p>
      <p>
For external area configuration, the general syntax for the AREAFILE
keyword is:
      </p>
      <p>
  AREAFILE &lt;programname&gt; &lsqb;path or filename(s)&rsqb; &lsqb;-options&rsqb;
      </p>
      <p>
Available options:
      </p>
      <p>
-NoChk
      </p>
      <p>
    Normally <name>GoldED+</name> will check the areafile timestamps when starting
    up, and recompile the configuration if a file was changed. If this
    option is given for any AREAFILE, those areafiles will not be
    checked. This can be useful in cases like TosScan, GEcho, IMail
    and several others which "touch" their files every time they run.
      </p>
      <p>
-S&lt;sortspec&gt;
      </p>
      <p>
    If you are *not* using the global AREALISTSORT keyword for sorting
    all the areas, you can sort the areas of each AREAFILE separately.
    See the AREALISTSORT keyword for the definition of &lt;sortspec&gt;.
      </p>
      <p>
If no path is specified, the appropriate environment variable or the
AREAPATH is used to find the files.
      </p>
      <p>
The &lt;programname&gt; can be one of the following:
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AdeptXBBS
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the AdeptXBBS configuration files.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the ADEPTXBBS environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AreasBBS
      </head>
      <p>
    <name>GoldED+</name> is can handle a wide variety of AREAS.BBS type files. It
    can read and distinguish between the old CONFMAIL style with paths
    for *.MSG areas, the Hudson/Goldbase style with board numbers, the
    Squish style with "&dollar;basename" and the JAM style with "&excl;basename".
      </p>
      <p>
    The disadvantage of using an AREAS.BBS is that there are no area
    descriptions. The echoid is used as description instead. However,
    <name>GoldED+</name> will use any text behind a semicolon on definition lines as
    description. This may or may not be compatible with mail
    processors, so be careful. A better solution may be to use the
    AREAFILE Echolist to add descriptions from a separate file.
      </p>
      <p>
    One or more AREAS.BBS files may be specified on the same line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Concord
      </head>
      <p>
    Support is planned but not yet implemented.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Crashmail
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the CrashMail II configuration file.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        D'Bridge
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the DBRIDGE.AA1/.AA2 files (for version 1.30) or the
    DBRIDGE.ADF of the later versions.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "DBRIDGE" and "DB" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Dutchie
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the DUTCHIE.ARE file.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "DUTCHIE" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Echolist
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads a simple ascii-text file containing an echolist in this
    format:
      </p>
      <p>
      &lt;echoid&gt; &lt;description&gt;
      </p>
      <p>
    or DZ-format (requires -DZ switch):
      </p>
      <p>
      &lsqb;Status&rsqb;, Tag, Comment, Moderator's Name, Address,&lsqb;Flags&rsqb;
      </p>
      <p>
    This feature adds descriptions to already existing areas in
    <name>GoldED+</name>. Example:
      </p>
      <p>
      AREAFILE AreasBBS AREAS.BBS
      AREAFILE EchoList ECHOLIST.TXT
      AREAFILE EchoList echo5020.lst -dz
      </p>
      <p>
    Descriptions for unknown echoids are ignored. Blank lines and
    lines beginning with characters which are illegal in echoids (such
    as ';') are also ignored.
      </p>
      <p>
    Additional switch -SqaFix could be used to read echolist and groups
    from SqaFix configuration file:
      </p>
      <p>
      AREAFILE Squish C:&bsol;SQUISH&bsol;
      AREAFILE EchoList C:&bsol;SQUISH&bsol;SQAFIX.CFG -SqaFix
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Ezycom
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads CONFIG.EZY and MESSAGES.EZY. Supports Ezycom 1.02 and 1.10g,
    but not 1.01.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "EZY" and "TASK" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FastEcho
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the FASTECHO.CFG file. Supports version 1.10 up to 1.46.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FASTECHO" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Fidoconfig
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads fidoconfig (used in Husky Project software). Supports
    version 0.15. Used parser is more powerful than original from
    fidoconfig, due to it strictly follows specification from proposal
    and implements all features from there. Additionaly it implements
    groups not described in proposal but used in in library.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FIDOCONFIG" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FidoPCB
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads FIDOPCB.CFG. Supports version 1.x.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FIDOPCB" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FMail
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads FMAIL.CFG and FMAIL.AR. Supports versions 0.92, 0.98, 1.0g,
    and 1.20.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FMAIL" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FrontDoor
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the SETUP.FD/FD.SYS and FOLDER.FD/FOLDER.SYS files. If you
    want the real echoid's attached to the areas, you will also need
    to supply the filename of the relevant AREAS.BBS file(s). Supports
    versions 1.99c and 2.xx.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FD" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GEcho
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads SETUP.GE and AREAFILE.GE. Supports versions 1.00, 1.02,
    1.10, 1.11 and 1.20.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "GE" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        IMAIL
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the IMAIL.CF and IMAIL.AR files. Supports version 1.60,
    1.7x and 1.8x.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "IMAIL" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        InterMail
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the FD.SYS/IMSYS.CFG and FOLDER.CFG/IMFOLDER.CFG files.
    Supports version 2.26 and newer.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "IM" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        LoraBBS
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the CONFIG.DAT and SYSMSG.DAT files. Supports version 2.33,
    2.40 and possibly others.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "LORA" and "LORABBS" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Maximus
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the MAX.PRM and AREA.DAT or MAREA.DAT files. Compatible (or
    should be) with both the old (1.xx) and (2.xx) and new (3.xx)
    formats. If your AREA.DAT is named differently, you must supply
    the correct filename.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "MAXIMUS" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ME2
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the old ME2 editor AREADESC.ME2 file and AREAS.BBS file(s).
    You must supply the names of both files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Opus
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the Opus 1.1x SYSTEM??.DAT files or the Opus 1.7x SYSMSG.DAT
    file.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "OPUS" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ParToss
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the ParToss configuration file.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PCBoard
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the PCBOARD.DAT, CNAMES.@@@ and CNAMES.ADD files. Supports
    version 14.x and 15.x, up to and including 15.22. Note that,
    depending on the version, echoid's may not be read from this
    format. If the echoid is not available, the description is used as
    echoid, after conversion to uppercase and spaces to underscores.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "PCBOARD" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Portal
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the PORTAL*.CFG and PORTAL.ARE files.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "POPCMDLINE" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ProBoard
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads MSGAREAS.PB. Supports version 2.0.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "PB" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QEcho
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads /etc/qecho/AreaList. Supports version patched by Eugene
    Sorochinsky for JAM messae base support.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QFront
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads QORIGIN.DAT and QECHOS.DAT. Supports version 1.13b.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "QFRONT" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        QuickBBS
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the CONFIG.BBS or QUICKCFG.DAT and MSGCFG.DAT files. To get
    the real echoid's, you must also supply the filename of the
    relevant AREAS.BBS.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "QUICKBBS" and "QBBS" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RaEcho
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads AREAS.RAE. Supports version 1.00 and 1.01.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "RAECHO" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RemoteAccess
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the MESSAGES.RA file. To get the real echoid's, you must
    also supply the filename of the relevant AREAS.BBS. Supports
    versions 0.xx, 1.xx, 2.0x and 2.5x.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "RA" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Squish
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads SQUISH.CFG and AREAS.BBS (if used). Supports version 1.0x
    and 1.1x. The "Include &lt;filename&gt;" feature of Squish 1.10 is also
    supported.
      </p>
      <p>
    The optional /G switch specifies the default group of the imported
    areas, i.e. /g=G or /g=&num;103.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "SQUISH" and "MAXIMUS" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SuperBBS
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads CONFIG.BBS, SCONFIG.BBS and BOARDS.BBS. Supports version
    1.16 and 1.17.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "SUPERBBS" and "SBBS" environment variables.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        timEd
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads TIMED.CFG and any included file. Also reads the
    configuration from other mail software defined in TIMED.CFG.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "TIMED" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Termail
      </head>
      <p>
    This is for the Terminate Mail system (Termail). <name>GoldED+</name> does
    currently only support Termail 4.00 und 5.xx style .CFG-files.
      </p>
      <p>
    Reads TM.CFG and any AREAFILE (an AREAS.BBS type file) defined
    there.
      </p>
      <p>
    NOTE: If you use this, you must start <name>GoldED+</name> in the Termail
    directory, because the standard TM configuration files use
    relative paths.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "TM" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TosScan
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the FD.SYS/SETUP.FD and AREAFILE.FD files. Supports version
    1.00 and FrontDoor 1.99c and 2.xx.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "FD" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        WaterGate
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the WTRCFG.TDB and AREABASE.TDB files. Supports version
    0.93.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        WMail
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the WMAIL.PRM and AREAS.PRM files. Supports version 2.2.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "WMAIL" environment variable.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XMail
      </head>
      <p>
    Reads the AREAS.XM file. Supports version 1.00.
      </p>
      <p>
    Looks for the "XM" environment variable.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
<div1 id=RANDOMSYSTEM><head>The Random System</head>
      <p>
With the Random System, you can define area-specific sets of origins,
tearlines, templates, usernames and many other items. If
more than one item of each type is specified, a random one is picked -
a Random System. This is a very useful feature when (for example)
participating in conferences with different languages.
      </p>
      <p>
The Random System is built on the idea of "groups". A group is a
collection of "items", belonging to the group. You can assign one or
more echomail areas, designated by their echoid's to a group. Groups
can also be specified for just a single echo, and DOS/4DOS-style
wildcards can be used to simplify the assignment of echoes with common
strings in their name, such as *.DK, SIG.* and so on. In this way, you
could for example setup one group for all national echoes, another for
special local echoes, a third for international echoes etc.
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Defining Groups
      </head>
      <p>
The general syntax of a group definition is:
      </p>
      <p>
GROUP &lt;id&gt;&lsqb;:&rsqb;
  ; items go here
  &lsqb;Member &lt;id list&gt;&rsqb;
ENDGROUP
      </p>
      <p>
The Group &lt;id&gt; can be one of three things:
      </p>
      <p>
1.  A group letter or &num;number, matching the group letters or numbers
    used in the AREAFILE's of D'Bridge, GEcho, IMAIL, TosScan and many
    others. To use this feature, you need to enable the AREAFILEGROUPS
    keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
2.  An individual echoid or echoid mask (wildcards can be used). The
    items are then simply defined below the Group line.
      </p>
      <p>
3.  A group label, terminated by a colon (:). The group items are
    defined below the Group line. Echoes are assigned to the group by
    adding one or more Member statements.
      </p>
      <p>
You can't assign a group to another group. It will not harm, but it
also won't work :-)
      </p>
      <p>
The order of groups is very important. <name>GoldED+</name> scans the groups from
the top down. This means that the most general groups must be placed
at the bottom and exceptions (individual areas for example) must be
placed at the top.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Defining Random Items
      </head>
      <p>
The random items are defined much like in the main <name>GoldED+</name>
configuration file.
      </p>
      <p>
If more than one of each item is defined within a group, those items
will be picked randomly (hence the name "Random System"), while <name>GoldED+</name>
collects items when entering an area.
      </p>
      <p>
Random Item Keywords:
  AKA
  AKAMATCHING
  AREACOPYDIRECT
  AREACOPYTO
  AREAFREQDIRECT
  AREAFREQTO
  AREAREPLYDIRECT
  AREAREPLYTO
  AREAYOUWROTETO
  ATTRIBUTES
  CTRLINFO
  EDITHARDTERM
  EDITMIXCASE
  EDITREPLYRE
  FORCETEMPLATE
  INPUTFILE
  INTERNETADDRESS
  INTERNETGATE
  INTERNETMSGID
  INTERNETRFCBODY
  LOADLANGUAGE
  MSGLISTDATE
  MSGLISTFAST
  MSGLISTFIRST
  MSGLISTHEADER
  MSGLISTWIDESUBJ
  NETNAME
  NICKNAME
  ORGANIZATION
  ORIGIN
  OUTPUTFILE
  PLAY
  QUOTEBUFFILE
  QUOTECHARS
  QUOTESTRING
  QUOTEWRAPHARD
  SEARCHFOR
  TAGLINE
  TAGLINECHAR
  TEARLINE
  TEMPLATE
  TEMPLATEMATCH
  TWITMODE
  USEFWD
  USERNAME
  USETZUTC
  VIEWHIDDEN
  VIEWKLUDGE
  VIEWQUOTE
  WHOTO
  XLATEXPORT
  XLATIMPORT
      </p>
      <p>
See the Configuration Keyword Reference chapter for details about each
keyword.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Random System Example
      </head>
      <p>
Below is an example of how a Random System could be setup. Note how
the letter group 'D' goes first, followed by the explicit group
definitions for the NERDS and FOO echoes. Then comes the more general
groups (those with Label:'s), where the echoes are assigned with one
or more Member statements. At last there is the catch-all "Group *",
which works as the default group.
      </p>
      <p>
=== Cut, GOLDRAND.CFG ===
      </p>
      <p>
Group NERDS           ; For the NERDS echo.
  Origin "I am a Nerd. Take me to your Loser&excl;"
      </p>
      <p>
Group FOO             ; This group is *only* for the FOO echo.
  Tearline FooED @rev
  Origin "Foo-ing my day away"
      </p>
      <p>
Group FooEchoes:
  Member *FOO*        ; Use wildcards to catch any other foo echo.
  Tearline FooED @rev
  Origin "This is a Foo-lish origin"
      </p>
      <p>
Group FidoNet:
  Member NET_DEV, WORLDPOL, INTERCOOK
  Member GREEN.029, C_ECHO, C_PLUSPLUS
  Origin "Fight-O-Net? Good name..."
  Template FIDONET.TPL
  Whoto Everyone
      </p>
      <p>
Group SigNet:
  Member SIG.*         ; The wildcard is VERY handy here ;-)
  Origin "To SIG or not to SIG..."
  Template SIGNET.TPL
      </p>
      <p>
Group D               ; Letter D for Danish echoes.
  Template DANSK.TPL
      </p>
      <p>
Group *                ; This is default group
  Origin "Yet another forgotten echo"
      </p>
      <p>
=== Uncut ===
      </p>
      <p>
See the example GOLDRAND.CFG in the ADVANCED archive for a real-life
setup similar to the one I use myself.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Color Configuration
    </head>
      <p>
Color configuration in <name>GoldED+</name> is a bit complicated, and you probably
have to experiment quite a bit, if you want make your own setup. For
your convenience, I have added a number of example color setups,
provided by some of my many good users. I suggest you try them all and
use the one that suits you best, perhaps tuning it a bit to your
taste.
      </p>
      <p>
The COLOR keyword uses the following syntax:
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        COLOR &lt;window&gt; &lt;part&gt; &lt;colors&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
  &lt;window&gt;  AREA, ASK, BACKGROUND, BRAG, HEADER, HELP, INFO, MENU,
            READER, SHADOW, STATUS.
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;part&gt;    BLOCK, BORDER, BTYPE, EDIT, HIDDEN, HIGHLIGHT, INPUT,
            KLUDGE, NOSELECT, ORIGIN, QUOTE, SELECTOR, TEARLINE,
            TITLE, WINDOW.
      </p>
      <p>
The &lt;colors&gt; are composed of &lsqb;blinking&rsqb; &lt;ink&gt; &lsqb;on &lt;paper&gt;&rsqb;.
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;ink&gt;     Black, Blue, Green, Cyan, Red, Magenta, Brown, LGrey,
            DGrey, LBlue, LGreen, LCyan, LRed, LMagenta, Yellow,
            White.
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;paper&gt;   Black, Blue, Green, Cyan, Red, Magenta, Brown, LGrey.
      </p>
      <p>
For monochrome setups we instead have:
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;ink&gt;     Normal, Highlight, Reverse, Underline.
      </p>
      <p>
The SHADOW color does not need a &lt;part&gt;, because it is global.
      </p>
      <p>
The paper color always defaults to Black if not specified.
      </p>
      <p>
If &lt;part&gt; is "BTYPE", the &lt;color&gt; is a value in the range 0-3, which
defines the type of lines used when drawing menus and windows:
      </p>
      <p>
BTYPE 0 is single horizontal and single vertical lines.
BTYPE 1 is double horizontal and double vertical lines.
BTYPE 2 is single horizontal and double vertical lines.
BTYPE 3 is double horizontal and single vertical lines.
      </p>
      <p>
The default border type is always BTYPE 0.
      </p>
      <p>
The following is a description of the different window parts:
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Various general color items
      </head>
      <p>
  SHADOW              Shadow below windows and menus.
  STATUS WINDOW       Status line at the bottom.
  BACKGROUND WINDOW   Background for the startup window.
  BACKGROUND BORDER   Overscan color (currently DOS only).
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;anything&gt; PAGEBAR  Pagebar (scrollbar).
      </p>
      <p>
  The PAGEBAR color specifially sets the color of the pagebars
  (scrollbars) in <name>GoldED+</name>. A pagebar color can currently be set for
  AREA, READER and MENU. Note that BORDER will set both the BORDER and
  PAGEBAR colors, so remember to place the PAGEBAR color below the
  BORDER color.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Startup screen / logo window
      </head>
      <p>
  BRAG WINDOW         The Copyright window.
  BRAG BORDER         Lines around the Copyright window.
  BRAG TITLE          The logo text.
  BRAG HIGHLIGHT      The inner logo lines.
  BRAG BLOCK          The outer logo lines.
  BRAG BTYPE          Copyright window border type.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Area Selection Menu
      </head>
      <p>
  AREA WINDOW         Descriptions, the top line (inc. search).
  AREA BORDER         Lines.
  AREA TITLE          Titles on the border.
  AREA SELECTOR       Selection bar.
  AREA HIGHLIGHT      The color for the area marks.
  AREA BTYPE          Window border type.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Message Header
      </head>
      <p>
  HEADER WINDOW       Header text.
  HEADER BORDER       Lines.
  HEADER TITLE        Titles on the border.
  HEADER INPUT        Message number input field.
  HEADER EDIT         Header input fields.
  HEADER HIGHLIGHT    Marks.
  HEADER BTYPE        Window border type.
  HEADER FROM         Header From field.
  HEADER TO           Header To field.
  HEADER SUBJECT      Header Subject field.
      </p>
      <p>
  The FROM/TO/SUBJECT colors supplement the HEADER WINDOW color. Note
  that WINDOW will also set the FROM/TO/SUBJECT colors, so remember to
  place the new colors below it.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Message Text
      </head>
      <p>
  READER WINDOW       Normal message text.
  READER BORDER       The Pagebar.
  READER QUOTE        (Odd) Quoted lines.
  READER QUOTE2       (Even) Quoted lines.
  READER CURSOR       Character at cursor pos. (int. editor).
  READER KLUDHIDD     Kludges and hidden lines.
  READER TEARORIG     Tearline and Origin.
  READER BLOCK        Block color (internal editor).
  READER BTYPE        Window border type.
  READER HIGHLIGHT    Search highlight in the message text.
  READER KLUDGE       Known kludges.
  READER HIDDEN       Hidden lines. (Unknown kludges).
  READER SIGNATURE    Internet-Style signatures ("-- ").
  READER TAGLINE      Taglines. (Only the one just above tearline).
  READER TEARLINE     Tearline.
  READER ORIGIN       Origin.
      </p>
      <p>
  The KLUDGE/HIDDEN colors replaces the old KLUDHIDD color. Note that
  KLUDHIDD will set both the KLUDGE and HIDDEN colors, so remember to
  place the new colors below it if you keep the old definition.
      </p>
      <p>
  The TAGLINE color is the color of taglines. <name>GoldED+</name> detects a tagline
  if it starts with "..." or "___" and is just above the tearline or
  origin.
      </p>
      <p>
  The TEARLINE/ORIGIN colors replaces the old TEARORIG color. Note
  that TEARORIG will set both the TEARLINE and ORIGIN colors, so
  remember to place the new colors below it if you keep the old
  definition.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Miscellaneous Smaller Menus
      </head>
      <p>
  ASK WINDOW          Menu items.
  ASK BORDER          Lines.
  ASK TITLE           Menu title.
  ASK SELECTOR        Selection bar.
  ASK NOSELECT        Non-selectable menu items.
  ASK HIGHLIGHT       Hotkeys.
  ASK BTYPE           Window border type.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Miscellaneous Larger Menus (Browser Windows)
      </head>
      <p>
  MENU WINDOW         Menu items.
  MENU BORDER         Lines.
  MENU TITLE          Menu title.
  MENU SELECTOR       Selection bar.
  MENU NOSELECT       Non-selectable menu items.
  MENU HIGHLIGHT      Hotkeys/marks.
  MENU UNREAD         When a msg is unread.
  MENU UNREADHIGH     Additional highlight of to/from.
  MENU UNSENT         When a msg is unsent.
  MENU UNSENTHIGH     Additional highlight of to/from.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Help Screens
      </head>
      <p>
  HELP WINDOW         Help text.
  HELP BORDER         Lines.
  HELP SELECTOR       Current keyword.
  HELP HIGHLIGHT      Other keywords.
  HELP BTYPE          Window border type.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Pop Up Information Windows
      </head>
      <p>
  INFO WINDOW         Window text.
  INFO BORDER         Lines.
  INFO TITLE          Info title.
  INFO BTYPE          Window border type.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Stylecodes
      </head>
      <p>
  STYLECODE ALL       All stylecodes at once.
  STYLECODE B         *Bold*
  STYLECODE I         /Italic/
  STYLECODE BI        /*BoldItalic*/
  STYLECODE U         _Underline_
  STYLECODE BU        _*BoldUnderline*_
  STYLECODE IU        /_ItalicUnderline_/
  STYLECODE BIU       _/*BoldItalicUnderline*/_
  STYLECODE R         &num;Reverse&num;
  STYLECODE RB        *&num;ReverseBold&num;*
  STYLECODE RI        /&num;ReverseItalic&num;/
  STYLECODE RBI       /*&num;ReverseBoldItalic&num;*/
  STYLECODE RU        _&num;ReverseUnderline_&num;
  STYLECODE RBU       _*&num;ReverseBoldUnderline&num;*_
  STYLECODE RIU       _/&num;ReverseItalicUnderline&num;/_
  STYLECODE RBIU      _/*&num;ReverseItalicUnderline&num;*/_
      </p>
      <p>
  Note that stylecode color definitions must be placed below COLOR
  READER WINDOW, because it overrides the COLOR STYLECODE definitions.
      </p>
      <p>
See the GEDCOL*.CFG and GEDMON*.CFG files for examples of color
configuration.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      The Message Template
    </head>
      <p>
The message template gives you a ready-made skeleton for writing your
messages in the editor. The template is one of <name>GoldED+</name>'s many strong
features. With this, you can eliminate the tedious typing of greetings
etc etc. <name>GoldED+</name> also provides a number of replacement strings,
"tokens", to dynamically add message specific information to the
template.
      </p>
      <p>
As in the configuration file, a semicolon (;) first on the line makes
the line a comment. Any other line is put into the editor file, after
token expansion. Tokens are not case sensitive.
      </p>
      <p>
The following is a list of the tokens available:
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Conditional tokens
      </head>
      <p>
 (these are replaced with a null string)
      </p>
      <p>
@changed    Line is only inserted in Changed msgs (from others).
@comment    Line is only inserted in Reply-Comments.
@echo       Line is only inserted in Echomail.
@forward    Line is only inserted in Forwarded messages.
@local      Line is only inserted in Local messages.
@moderator  Line is only inserted if substring "moderator" appeared in
            from line.
@moved      Line is only inserted in Reply-Moved messages.
@net        Line is only inserted in Netmail.
@new        Line is only inserted in New messages (not replies).
@position   Specifies the starting line for the editor cursor.
@quotebuf   Line is only inserted in Quotebuffered msgs.
@quoted     Line is only inserted in Quoted replies.
@reply      Line is only inserted in Non-Quoted Replies.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Insert tokens
      </head>
      <p>
 (anything else on the line is ignored)
      </p>
      <p>
@attrib         &lt;attributes&gt; - Adds specific message attributes.
@include        &lt;filename&gt; - Inserts the file.
@forcefrom      &lt;"from"&gt; - sets message FROM: field, even if non-empty
                  (see @setfrom)
@forcesubj      &lt;"subject"&gt; - sets message SUBJ: field, even if non-empty
                  (see @setsubj)
@forceto        &lt;"to"&gt; - sets message TO: field, even if non-empty
                  (see @setto)
@loadlanguage   Loads a partial language config file.
@message        Inserts the original message (in Forward &amp; Change).
@quote          Inserts a quote of the original message.
@random         &lsqb;random.txt&rsqb; - Inserts random text.
@setfrom        &lt;"from"&gt; - Sets the message FROM: field.
@setsubj        &lt;"subject"&gt; - Sets the message SUBJ: field.
@setto          &lt;"to"&gt; - Sets the message TO: field.
@xlatexport     &lt;charset&gt; - Sets the export charset.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Replacement tokens
      </head>
      <p>
 (replaced with message specific data):
      </p>
      <p>
@c3daddr    Current user 3D (boss) address.
@caddr      Current user address.
@cdate      Current date.
@cdesc      Current area description.
@cecho      Current echoid.
@cfname     Current user first name.
@clname     Current user last name.
@cname      Current user name.
@cpseudo    Current pseudonym given by NICKNAME keyword, or @cfname.
@ctime      Current time.
@ctzoffset  Current timezone offset (if available and enabled).
@d3daddr    Destination 3D (boss) address.
@daddr      Destination address.
@dfname     Destination first name.
@dlname     Destination last name.
@dname      Destination name.
@dpseudo    Destination pseudonym (see addressbook), or @dfname.
@f3daddr    Current from 3D (boss) address.
@faddr      Current from address.
@ffname     Current from first name.
@flname     Current from last name.
@fname      Current from name.
@fpseudo    Current from pseudonym (see addressbook), or @ffname.
@longpid    Long program id. "GoldED", "GoldED/2" or "GoldED/386".
@o3daddr    Original 3D (boss) address.
@oaddr      Original address.
@odate      Original date.
@odesc      Original area description if moved, else current.
@oecho      Original echoid if moved, otherwise current.
@ofname     Original first name.
@ofrom      Original RFC "From" headerline.
@olname     Original last name.
@omessageid Original RFC "Message-ID" headerline.
@omsgid     Original MSGID kludge content.
@oname      Original name.
@opseudo    Original pseudonym (see addressbook), or @ofname.
@origin     The current global or Random System origin.
@os2slash   "/2" if running <name>GoldED+</name>/2. Empty otherwise.
@osslash    same as above.
@otime      Original time.
@otzoffset  Original timezone offset (if available and enabled).
@oto        Original RFC "To" headerline.
@pid        Short program id. "GED", "GED/2" or "GED386".
@pseudo     pseudonym (see addressbook), or @tfname.
@rev        The revision number (in the form mmdd).
@serialno   Emptiness.
@subject    The message subject line.
@t3daddr    Destination to 3D (boss) address.
@taddr      Destination to address.
@tagline    The current global or Random System tagline.
@tearline   The current global or Random System tearline.
@tfname     Destination to first name.
@tlname     Destination to last name.
@tname      Destination to name.
@tpseudo    Destination to pseudonym (see addressbook), or @tfname.
@ver        The simple version number (in the form x.yy)
@version    The complete release version number of <name>GoldED+</name>.
@_caddr     Current user address (fixed width: 19 chars).
@_cname     Current user name (fixed width: 34 chars).
@_daddr     Destination address (fixed width: 19 chars).
@_dname     Destination name (fixed width: 34 chars).
@_oaddr     Original address (fixed width: 19 chars).
@_oname     Original name (fixed width: 34 chars).
@_taddr     Destination to address (fixed width: 19 chars).
@_tname     Destination to name (fixed width: 34 chars).
      </p>
      <p>
Tokens dealing with names may optionally have two parameters (each
parameter enclosed in curve brackets): your name and opponent name,
destination name additionally accepts third parameter - WhoTo name.
Here is example on how this feature could be used:
      </p>
      <p>
   @oname&lcub;I&rcub;&lcub;You&rcub; wrote to @dname&lcub;me&rcub;&lcub;you&rcub;&lcub;everyone&rcub;:
      </p>
      <p>
The template text begins at the first non-comment line.
      </p>
      <p>
See the included GOLDED.TPL for example usage.
      </p>
      <p>
If you need to put some text which contains one of these tokens into a
template file, use an extra '@' in front of the token.
      </p>
      <p>
Example:
      </p>
      <p>
  Internet: somebody@veryhot.com
      </p>
      <p>
would produce
      </p>
      <p>
  Internet: somebody2.51yhot.com    (because @ver is a token)
      </p>
      <p>
so write it like this instead:
      </p>
      <p>
  Internet: somebody@@veryhot.com
      </p>
      <p>
The double '@' will then be translated to a single, and token
translation skips past the @token.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      The Online Help System
    </head>
      <p>
GoldED has a built-in context sensitive help system, tied to the &lt;F1&gt;
key (one of the very few keys that cannot be reconfigured). It
contains a complete keyboard reference and help for most situations.
It is current not as complete or sophisticated as I'd like it myself,
but this may be improved in future versions.
      </p>
      <p>
You can completely redefine the help screens if you wish - the
GOLDHELP.CFG file is a plain ASCII text file which contains all help
definitions. The help file is split into several help categories. Here
is an example of a couple of defined help categories:
      </p>
      <p>
    *B 1,Help Category 1
    help text help text help text
    help text help text help text
    *P
    help text help text help text
    help text help text help text
    *E
      </p>
      <p>
    *B 2,Help Category 2
    help text help text help text
    help text help text help text
    *P
    help text help text help text
    help text help text help text
    See also: ^Help Category 1^
    *E
      </p>
      <p>
The "*B" indicator specifies the beginning of a help category. The
format is "*B helpcatnumber&lsqb;,helpcatname&rsqb;". In <name>GoldED+</name> the help
categories are numbered 1000-9999, split into more or less logical
groups. See the help file for assignments. There should be only one
space between the "*B" and the help category number. The help category
name is only required for cross-references. If there are no
cross-references to that help category, then you can leave the
helpcatname parameter out.
      </p>
      <p>
The "*P" indicator specifies a page break and is optional. You may
have as many page breaks as you'd like. The "*E" indicator specifies
the end of the help category. The "*B", "*P", and "*E" indicators must
all begin in the first column. These indicators and the help category
name are case insensitive (can be in lowercase, uppercase, or mixed).
      </p>
      <p>
In the definition of Help Category 2, you will notice the
crossreference to Help Category 1. All cross-referencing is done by
embedding the cross- reference category name (not number) inside
carats (^). If you need to display a carat inside the help file, use a
double carat (^^).
      </p>
      <p>
Any text contained outside of the "*B" and "*E" is treated as
comments. If an "*E" is not found, then the end-of-file will be
treated as an "*E".
      </p>
      <p>
Not all of the help categories in this help file are actually used in
the current version of <name>GoldED+</name>. The ones not used are empty, except for
a two-line "header".
      </p>
      <p>
The usable dimensions of the help window are 60 columns by 16 lines.
In the help file there is a model of the actual window.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Character Translation
    </head>
      <p>
GoldED implements several different proposals for character
translation in imported and exported messages:
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FSC-0050  "Charset Identifier"
      </head>
      <p>
 by Thomas Sundblom.
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FSC-0051  "I51"
      </head>
      <p>
 by Thomas Gradin.
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FSC-0054  "CHARSET proposal"
      </head>
      <p>
 by Duncan McNutt.
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        No FSC    "Composed Characters"
      </head>
      <p>
 by Andre van de Wijdeven.
      </p>
      <p>
FSC-0050 is currently known to be implemented in the OPMED 3.xx
message editor, and in Opus 1.7x. It uses the same identifier as
FSC-0054 (a ^aCHARSET kludge), but is a lot simpler (but not
necessarily better).
      </p>
      <p>
The "I51" and "CHARSET" proposals are in the process of being merged
to one proposal, which should combine the advantages of both. They are
both based on using the LATIN-1 (also known as ISO 8859-1) character
set for extended ASCII. The LATIN-1 set is the same set used by
Windows 3.xx, Amiga and many other non-PC computers. In addition to
LATIN-1, I51 defines a set of so-called escape sequences for
characters not found in the LATIN-1 set.
      </p>
      <p>
"Composed Characters" became quite popular in Holland, but the author
decided to drop his proposal because it relied on escape sequences
using the so called "soft-cr" (141d, 8Dh) character. <name>GoldED+</name> will
continue to support Composed as long as it seems necessary.
      </p>
      <p>
If you want to know more about the details, I suggest you read the
proposals or contact the authors.
      </p>
      <p>
GoldED currently supports two types of translation tables, the *.ESC
files and the *.CHS files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        The ESC translation tables
      </head>
      <p>
The *.ESC files are used for import translation of the escape
sequences defined in I51 and Composed Characters.
      </p>
      <p>
In the ESC files, the semicolon is used for comments. The *first*
non-comment line defines the charset the escape code are mapped TO.
This is normally IBMPC, and should not be changed. Any other
non-comment line is treated as an escape sequence definition with this
syntax:
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;esc1&gt;&lt;esc2&gt;&lt;space&gt;&lt;map chars&gt;&lsqb;; comment/description&rsqb;
      </p>
      <p>
Leading spaces are *not* allowed in ESC files. &lt;esc1&gt; and &lt;esc2&gt; are
the two characters that define the escape sequence. &lt;space&gt; is ignored
and can be used to make the table look better. &lt;map chars&gt; defines the
local representation of the escape sequence, up to three characters.
Normally you would only map to one extended ascii character. The map
chars can be either the characters themselves, or decimal or
hexadecimal numbers of the form "&bsol;d&lt;dec&gt;" or "&bsol;x&lt;hex&gt;" (like in the C
programming language).
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        The CHS translation tables
      </head>
      <p>
The *.CHS files are used for import and export translation of the
CHARSET type character sets, and export of I51 and Composed escape
sequences.
      </p>
      <p>
The CHS files uses the format of the raw text files provided in the
CHARSET3.ZIP example implementation of FSC-0054. Study some of the
files provided if you want to know how to define them.
      </p>
      <p>
The two keywords XLATESCSET and XLATCHARSET are used to define which
files belong to what import and export set. You can define more than
one import and export set for each file.
      </p>
      <p>
The keyword XLATIMPORT defines which charset you have on your own
machine - this would normally be "IBMPC". It can be useful to change
this (using the Random System) in areas where another character set
than IBMPC is the dominant (like Amiga or MacIntosh, whatever).
      </p>
      <p>
The keyword XLATEXPORT defines the charset your messages should be
exported to, if any.
      </p>
      <p>
Confused? Yeah, I know - this is a confusing subject, and my
implementation and documentation is not perfect. Normally you will not
have to worry about it. Turn it off completely if you don't understand
it.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Keyboard Command Reference
    </head>
      <p>
Most of the <name>GoldED+</name> keyboard commands can be reached with just one
keystroke. To ease operation for experienced users of other message
editors, <name>GoldED+</name> comes with several sets of keys for each of the
keyboard commands - direct non-shifted keys, Alt/Ctrl-keys and
function keys. Many of these key assignments will be familiar for
users of Msged, Msged/Q, ME2 and FM.
      </p>
      <p>
The following is a list of all keyboard commands, sorted by type and
alphabetically, using the format
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;command&gt;          &lt;short description&gt;
      </p>
      <p>
This list is also available in the context-sensitive help system on
the &lt;F1&gt; key.
      </p>
      <p>
It is possible to almost completely redefine the keyboard - this in
done in the GOLDKEYS.CFG file, which also handles macro definition
(see later).
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Arealist commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
AREAabort               Abort the arealist.
AREAaskexit             Exit <name>GoldED+</name>, prompt for final decision.
AREAboardnos            Toggle sequential areas vs. board numbers.
AREAcatchup             Point the lastread pointer to the last message
                        in the current area.
AREAdosshell            Shell to DOS.
AREAdropmsgmarks        Unmark all msgs in selected areas.
AREAgotofirst           Move selection bar to first area.
AREAgotolast            Move selection bar to last area.
AREAgotonext            Move selection bar to next area.
AREAgotoprev            Move selection bar to previous area.
AREAheat                Heat highwatermarks.
AREAjump                Move selection bar to next marked area.
AREAjumpnextmatch       Move selection bar to next matching area.
AREAquitnow             Exit immediately, no questions asked.
AREAscan                Scan areas.
AREAscanpm              Scan areas for personal mail.
AREAselect              Enter the reader for the selected area.
AREAselectmarks         Select which set of area marks should be used.
AREAsoundkill           Stops currently played sound file.
AREAtoggle              Toggle mark on the selected area.
AREAtouchnetscan        Touches the SEMAPHORE NETSCAN file.
AREAwritegoldlast       Write a fresh copy of GOLDLAST.LST
AREAzap                 Zap highwatermarks.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Internal editor commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
EDITabort               Abort editing this message - ask first.
EDITanchor              Set a block "anchor" on the current line.
EDITaskexit             Exit from <name>GoldED+</name> - ask first.
EDITblockdown           Extend block area one line down.
EDITblockend            Extend block area to the end of line.
EDITblockhome           Extend block area to the beginning of line.
EDITblockleft           Extend block area one character left.
EDITblockpgup           Extend block area one screen up.
EDITblockpgdn           Extend block area one screen down.
EDITblockright          Extend block area one character right.
EDITblockup             Extend block area one line up.
EDITcleardeletebuf      Clears the undelete buffer.
EDITclearpastebuf       Clears the cut'n'paste buffer.
EDITcopy                Copies the block to the cut'n'paste buffer.
EDITcopyabovechar       Inserts character same as in the same position
                        in previous line.
EDITcut                 Cut the block to the cut'n'paste buffer.
EDITdelchar             Delete the char at the cursor position.
EDITdelete              Delete the block.
EDITdeleteeol           Delete from cursor position to end of line.
EDITdelleft             Delete the char to the left of the cursor.
EDITdelline             Delete the current line. (Copied to the
EDITdelltword           Delete the word to the left of the cursor.
EDITdelrtword           Delete the word to the right of the cursor.
EDITdosshell            Shell to DOS.
EDITdupline             Duplicates the current line.
EDITexitmsg             Drop this message - NO ASKING&excl; DANGEROUS&excl;
EDITexporttext          Exports the current block to a file.
EDITgobegline           Move cursor to beginning of line.
EDITgobotline           Move cursor to the bottom line in the display.
EDITgobotmsg            Move cursor to the last line in the message.
EDITgodown              Move cursor down to next line.
EDITgoeol               Move cursor to the end of the line.
EDITgoleft              Move cursor one position left.
EDITgopgdn              Move cursor one page of lines down.
EDITgopgup              Move cursor one page of lines up.
EDITgoright             Move cursor one position right.
EDITgotopline           Move cursor to the top line in the display.
EDITgotopmsg            Move cursor to the first line in the message.
EDITgoup                Move cursor up to the previous line.
EDITgowordleft          Move cursor to the previous word.
EDITgowordright         Move cursor to the next word.
EDITheader              Edit the message header, attributes etc.
EDITimportquotebuf      Imports the current quote buffer.
EDITimporttext          Import text file into this message.
EDITkillquotes          (ignored)
EDITloadfile            Load the message file saved with EDITsavefile.
EDITlookupcursor        Lookup name/node at cursor position.
EDITlookupdest          Lookup TO: node.
EDITlookuporig          Lookup FROM: node.
EDITnewline             Terminate paragraph and/or add a new line.
EDITpaste               Paste a previously cut block at the cursor.
EDITquitnow             Quit <name>GoldED+</name> immediately - no asking.
EDITreflow              Reflows the current text or quote paragraph.
EDITsavefile            Saves the current message as a file.
EDITsavemsg             Save this message.
EDITsoundkill           Stops currently played sound flie.
EDITspellcheck          Calls an external spell checker for the msg.
EDITtab                 Add spaces to the next tab-stop.
EDITtabreverse          Remove spaces to the prev tab-stop.
EDITtogglecase          Toggle the case of the cursor character.
EDITtoggleinsert        Toggle insert mode.
EDITtolower             Change the cursor character to lowercase.
EDITtoupper             Change the cursor character to uppercase.
EDITundelete            Undelete previously deleted lines.
EDITzapquotebelow       Deletes quotes below.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        File selection commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
FILEabort               Abort file selection.
FILEaskexit             Exit <name>GoldED+</name> - ask first.
FILEdosshell            Shell to DOS.
FILEgotofirst           Go to first file.
FILEgotolast            Go to last file.
FILEgotonext            Go to next file.
FILEgotoprev            Go to previous file.
FILEmark                Mark file.
FILEmarkall             Mark all files.
FILEquitnow             Quit <name>GoldED+</name> immediately.
FILEselect              Select the marked file(s).
FILEtogglemark          Toggle file mark.
FILEunmark              Unmark file.
FILEunmarkall           Unmark all files.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Message lister commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
LISTabort               Abort message lister.
LISTaskexit             Exit <name>GoldED+</name> - ask first.
LISTdosshell            Shell to DOS.
LISTgotobookmark        Go to BookMark message.
LISTgotofirst           Go to first message.
LISTgotolast            Go to last message.
LISTgotonext            Go to next message.
LISTgotoprev            Go to previous message.
LISTmarkingoptions      Marking menu.
LISTquitnow             Quit <name>GoldED+</name> immediately.
LISTselect              Go to reader at the selected message.
LISTtogglebookmark      Toggle BookMark on the selected message.
LISTtoggledate          Toggle date column content.
LISTtogglemark          Toggle Mark on the selected message.
LISTtogglewidesubj      Toggle between wide and short subject.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Nodelist browser commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
NODEabort               Abort nodelist browsing.
NODEaskexit             Exit <name>GoldED+</name> - ask first.
NODEdosshell            Shell to DOS.
NODEgotofirst           Go to first node.
NODEgotolast            Go to last node.
NODEgotonext            Go to next node.
NODEgotoprev            Go to previous node.
NODEquitnow             Quit <name>GoldED+</name> immediately.
NODEselect              Select node.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Message reader commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
READaddressbookadd      Add current/marked mail writer(s) to
                        addressbook. Ask first.
READaskexit             Exit <name>GoldED+</name>, prompt for final decision.
READchangeaka           Change default AKA address for current area.
READchangeattrs         Change the attributes of the current message.
READchangemsg           Change current message.
READchangeorigin        Change default origin for the current area.
READchangetagline       Change default tagline.
READchangetemplate      Change default template.
READchangeusername      Change default username.
READchangexlatimport    Change default import charset.
READcommentmsg          Comment-Reply to message. (Reply to TO name).
READcopymoveforward     Enter the Copy/Move/Forward function menu.
READdecreasemargin      Decrease message margin. For test purposes.
READdeletemsg           Delete current/marked message(s). Ask first.
READdosshell            Shell to DOS.
READfidorenumber        Renumber Fido/Opus *.MSG files.
READfilerequest         Generate a filerequest from the current msg.
READfindall             Find string(s) in message header and text.
READfindheader          Find string(s) in message header.
READgotobookmark        Go to the "BookMark" message.
READgotofirstmsg        Go to the first message in the area.
READgotolastmsg         Go to the last message in the area.
READgotomsgno           Go to a specific message number.
READgotonextarea        Go directly to the next area.
READgotonextmsg         Go to the next message.
READgotonextunread      Go to the next unread message.
READgotoprevarea        Go directly to the previous area.
READgotoprevmsg         Go to the previous message.
READgotoprevunread      Go to the previous unread message.
READgotoreplies         Choose from the next messages in the replylink.
READgotoreply1st        Go to the first reply to this message.
READgotoreplynext       Go to the next reply to this message.
READgotoreplyprev       Go to the parent message in the replylink.
READincreasemargin      Increase message margin. For test purposes.
READlookupdest          Lookup TO: node.
READlookuporig          Lookup FROM: node.
READmakeuserlist        Generate FIDOUSER.LST of users in the area.
READmakepathreport      Added "path report" feature. The output file
                        can be processed by a RDDT (Route Diagram
                        Drawing Tool) utility.
READmarkingoptions      Enter the marking menu.
READmessagelist         Enter the message lister.
READmovecommentmsg      Comment-Reply in another area.
READmovequotemsg        Quote-Reply in another area.
READmsgcontinue         Page down or go to next message.
READmsgend              Display last part of current message.
READmsghome             Display first part of current message.
READmsglinedown         Scroll message display.
READmsglineup           Scroll message display.
READmsgpgdn             Page message display.
READmsgpgup             Page message display.
READnewarea             Enter the area selection screen.
READnewmsg              Start a new message.
READquitnow             Exit <name>GoldED+</name> immediately, no questions asked.
READquotebuf            Append quote of the msg to the quotebuffer.
READquotemsg            Quote-Reply to message. (Reply to FROM name).
READreplymsg            Reply to the current message, without quoting.
READsearch              Launches the search engine.
READsoundkill           Stops currently played sound file.
READthreadtree          Enter the Message Threading lister.
READtogglebookmark      Toggle a "BookMark" on the current message.
READtogglehexdump       Toggle hexdump mode. For debugging purposes.
READtogglehiddklud      Toggle display of Hidden and Kludge lines.
READtogglehidden        Toggle display of Hidden lines.
READtogglekludge        Toggle display of Kludge lines.
READtogglemark          Toggle a message mark on the current message.
READtogglemarkread      Toggle "Read Marked" mode.
READtogglepagebar       Toggle the "PageBar" feature.
READtogglequote         Toggle display of quoted lines. Experimental.
READtogglerot13         Toggle ROT13 encryption for the current msg.
READtogglerealmsgno     Toggle between seq. or real message numbers.
READtogglestyles        Toggle Disable/Show/Show+Strip of STYLECODES.
READtoggletwits         Toggle Twit display - Show/Blank/Skip/Ignore.
READtouchnetscan        Touches the SEMAPHORE NETSCAN file.
READtouchsemaphore      Popup touch a manually entered semaphore file.
READuserbase            Launches the addressbook.
READuudecode            UUdecodes the current message.
READwritemsg            Write message(s) to file or printer.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Key undefine commands
      </head>
      <p>
:
      </p>
      <p>
AREAundefine
EDITundefine
FILEundefine
LISTundefine
NODEundefine
READundefine
      </p>
      <p>
The undefine commands can used to undefine any of the built-in default
keyboard definitions.
      </p>
      <p>
See the Key Reference below for a list of the key symbols you can use
in keyboard redefinition.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
<div1 id=MACROSANDKEYSTACKING><head>Macros and Keystacking</head>
      <p>
GoldED has a simple keyboard macro facility, which you can use to
automate certain common operations. In addition, a "keystacking"
facility allows you to create simple automatic macros on the fly.
      </p>
      <p>
The macro definition syntax is modelled after the syntax used in the
QEdit text editor:
      </p>
      <p>
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; Macro     &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; AreaMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; EditMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; FileMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; ListMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; NodeMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
  &lt;assignment-key&gt; ReadMacro &lt;commands or keys&gt;
      </p>
      <p>
Macros are defined in the GOLDKEYS.CFG file, where you can also find
several examples.
      </p>
      <p>
By using the word "Auto" as &lt;assignment-key&gt;, you can even define a
special macro which will be automatically executed when you start
GoldED.
      </p>
      <p>
Keystacking is a special form of auto-macros. You simply specify a
bunch of keys to be "stacked" in the (special internal) keyboard
buffer for sequential execution.
      </p>
      <p>
You can either specify a default set of keystacking in the .CFG
configuration file, or override any default keystacking by typing the
keystack definitions at the <name>GoldED+</name> commandline or the GEDCMD
environment variable.
      </p>
      <p>
See the Key Reference chapter for a list of the key symbols you can
use in macros and keystacking.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Key Reference
    </head>
      <p>
Below is the list of key symbols recognized by <name>GoldED+</name> for
keyboard/macro definition and keystacking.
      </p>
      <p>
Unshifted function keys
      </p>
      <p>
    F1  F2  F3  F4  F5  F6  F7  F8  F9  F10  F11  F12
      </p>
      <p>
Shift-function keys
      </p>
      <p>
    &num;F1  &num;F2  &num;F3  &num;F4  &num;F5  &num;F6  &num;F7  &num;F8  &num;F9  &num;F10  &num;F11  &num;F12
      </p>
      <p>
Alt-function keys
      </p>
      <p>
    @F1  @F2  @F3  @F4  @F5  @F6  @F7  @F8  @F9  @F10  @F11  @F12
      </p>
      <p>
Ctrl-function keys
      </p>
      <p>
    ^F1  ^F2  ^F3  ^F4  ^F5  ^F6  ^F7  ^F8  ^F9  ^F10  ^F11  ^F12
      </p>
      <p>
Alt-Numbers
      </p>
      <p>
    @0  @1  @2  @3  @4  @5  @6  @7  @8  @9
      </p>
      <p>
Alt-Letters
      </p>
      <p>
    @A  @B  @C  @D  @E  @F  @G  @H  @I  @J  @K  @L  @M
    @N  @O  @P  @Q  @R  @S  @T  @U  @V  @W  @X  @Y  @Z
      </p>
      <p>
Ctrl-Letters
      </p>
      <p>
    ^A  ^B  ^C  ^D  ^E  ^F  ^G  ^H  ^I  ^J  ^K  ^L  ^M
    ^N  ^O  ^P  ^Q  ^R  ^S  ^T  ^U  ^V  ^W  ^X  ^Y  ^Z
      </p>
      <p>
Insert/Delete
      </p>
      <p>
    Ins  ^Ins  @Ins
    Del  ^Del  @Del
      </p>
      <p>
Home/End
      </p>
      <p>
    Home  ^Home  @Home
    End   ^End   @End
      </p>
      <p>
Page up/down
      </p>
      <p>
    PgUp  ^PgUp  @PgUp
    PgDn  ^PgDn  @PgDn
      </p>
      <p>
Cursor left/right
      </p>
      <p>
    Left   ^Left   @Left
    Right  ^Right  @Right
      </p>
      <p>
Cursor up/down
      </p>
      <p>
    Up    ^Up    @Up
    Down  ^Down  @Down
      </p>
      <p>
Misc other keys
      </p>
      <p>
    Esc  ^Grey*  Key5  Space  Tab  &num;Tab  @Tab  BackSpace  ^BackSpace
    @BackSpace  Enter  ^Enter  @Enter
      </p>
      <p>
Note that some of the Alt-keys, especially the cursor-related keys and
the F11/F12 keys, are "extended" keys normally only available on
systems with an extended keyboard bios. However, <name>GoldED+</name> uses a few
tricks to make some the extended keys available on non-extended
systems.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Language Definition
    </head>
      <p>
GoldED allows you to almost completely redefine the language dependent
text in the program.
      </p>
      <p>
The language dependent text in <name>GoldED+</name> is defined in the plain ASCII
text GOLDLANG.CFG file.
      </p>
      <p>
See the example language file for the actual method and format of
language redefinition.
      </p>
      <p>
If you are planning to translate the text in <name>GoldED+</name>, you should also
look into the definition of the help screens.
      </p>
      <p>
You do not need permission from the author before announcing or
distributing your own modified language files.
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Date/Time Substitution Codes
      </head>
      <p>
A few of the language texts can contain special date/time substitution
codes. The keywords for those are: MS_DateTimeFmt, MS_DateFmt,
MS_TimeFmt and ST_StatuslineTimeFmt.
      </p>
      <p>
Here are the valid substitution codes:
      </p>
      <p>
  %a  Abbreviated weekday name (Mon, Tue, Wed, ...).
  %A  Full weekday name (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, ...).
  %b  Abbreviated month name (Jan, Feb, Mar, ...).
  %B  Full month name (January, February, March, ...).
  %d  Day of month (01-31).
  %e  Day of month, with leading space for single digits (1-31).
  %E  Day of month (1-31).
  %H  Hour (00-23) (24-hour clock).
  %I  Hour (01-12) (12-hour clock).
  %j  Day of the year (001-366).
  %m  Month (01-12).
  %M  Minute (00-59).
  %p  AM or PM according to 12-hour clock.
  %S  Second (00-59).
  %U  Week number (00-52) where sunday is first day of the week.
  %w  Weekday (0-6) where 0 is sunday.
  %W  Week number (01-53) where monday is first day of the week.
  %y  Year without century (00-99).
  %Y  Year with century.
  %%  Character '%'.
      </p>
      <p>
The %a, %A, %b and %B codes substitute to the current language setup
loaded using the LOADLANGUAGE keyword.
      </p>
      <p>
*** NOTE ***
      </p>
      <p>
In the continuing development of <name>GoldED+</name>, it is impossible to
completely maintain backward compatibility of the language format or
the text defined there. New features may add and/or obsolete some
definitions, or may change the format of others.
      </p>
      <p>
The existing language file may contain definitions which are already
obsolete, but which I haven't had time to search for and remove, as
well as there may be some texts in <name>GoldED+</name> which are not yet definable.
All this will of course be corrected in future versions. If you find
inconsistencies, please report them, because I may have overlooked
them.
      </p>
      <p>
<!-- page -->
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
    </div2>
  </div1>
  <div1>
    <head>
      Message Kludge Lines
    </head>
      <p>
Kludge lines are special control lines, that begin with a ^a (ASCII 1)
as the first character of the line, followed by a unique identifying
name and the relevant control information.
      </p>
      <p>
GoldED is aware of a lot of these kludges, and supports a number of
them, if you want to have them inserted in your messages.
      </p>
      <p>
Some kludges are useless junk and more or less commercials for this
and that software, but a few are useful for miscellaneous purposes. In
the following, I will list (some of) the known and supported kludges,
and a short description of what they are used for.
      </p>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ACUPDATE:
      </head>
      <p>
    This kludge is a feature of Squish 1.10: Message Broadcast
    Modify/Delete. Read the docs for Squish 1.10 for details.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        AREA:&lt;echoname&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This is not really a kludge, and it doesn't begin with a ^a, but I
    included it on the kludge list because it sometimes turned up in
    echomail areas where it should have been stripped off by the mail
    tosser.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CC: &lt;name&gt; &lt;address&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    When <name>GoldED+</name> produces carbon copies, it adds to each message a full
    list of the persons who get a copy. One version of this list is
    hidden behind the CC: kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CHARSET:&lt;charset identifier&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Proposed in FSC-0050 and FSC-0054, this kludge is an attempt to
    find a solution to the problem of the high-bit characters (like
    the IBM PC vs Amiga vs Mac etc. national chars) in messages.
    <name>GoldED+</name> can recognize, use and generate this kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CHRC:&lt;font change id&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Proposed in FSC-0054, this is a kludge for changing fonts,
    underlining and other stuff.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        CHRS:&lt;charset identifier&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Alternative FSC-0054 version of the CHARSET kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DESTADDR:&lt;destaddress&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    This one is not proposed anywhere, but it looks like it gives the
    address of the intended recipient. <name>GoldED+</name> takes the address for
    the dest field.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        DOMAIN &lt;destdomain&gt; &lt;destaddress&gt; &lt;origdomain&gt; &lt;origaddress&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Proposed in FSC-0038, this tries to solve the problem of mail
    crossing domain boundaries. <name>GoldED+</name> takes both addresses.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EID:&lt;crc16&gt; &lt;stamp&gt; &lsqb;replycrc16&rsqb; &lt;replystamp&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Proposed in FSC-0031, this is used for dupe checking and reply
    linking. The EID is today generally considered as garbage, but a
    lot of older mail processors such as QMail still generate it.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ENC:
      </head>
      <p>
    Signifies that the message contains encrypted data. <name>GoldED+</name> will
    add this kludge if it detects that the message has been encrypted
    with PGP.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        EOT:
      </head>
      <p>
    End Of Text. See SOT.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FLAGS &lt;special attributes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
    Proposed in FSC-0053, this is a special netmail kludge used by the
    FrontDoor and D'Bridge mailers and the IMail mail processor. It
    provides extra attributes not found among the standard attributes
    in the normal message/packet headers. <name>GoldED+</name> uses and generates
    this kludge, if you set the attributes.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FMPT &lt;from point&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0001</name>, this tells the point number of the
        originator. Netmail only. <name>GoldED+</name> can generate this line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDAREA &lt;original area&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original area in forwards. See
        <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDDEST &lt;aka&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original <gi>To:</gi> address in forwards.
        See <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDFROM &lt;name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original <gi>From:</gi> name in forwards.
        See <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDMSGID &lt;aka serial&num;&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original <gi>MSGID</gi> in forwards.
        See <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDORIG &lt;aka&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original from-aka in forwards. See
        <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDSUBJ &lt;original subject&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original subject in forwards. See
        <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        FWDTO &lt;name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        <name>FSC-0092</name>: The original <q>To:</q> field in forwards. See
        <kw>USEFWD</kw> and <name>FSC-0092</name> for a more detailed
        description.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GATECHK:&lt;???&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Some sort of gating kludge? Don't know what it's for.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GIF:&lt;filename&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Invented by <name>Henk Wever</name> and used in his
        <name>Dutchie</name> software. The filename (which does not have an
        extension) indicates a <abbr>GIF</abbr> picture of the author of the
        message.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        GROUP:&lt;echoname&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        I think this one comes from stray Groupmail messages. Similar to the
        <gi>AREA</gi> kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        I51 (no parameters)
      </head>
      <p>
        Proposed in <name>FSC-0051</name>, this indicates that the message text
        conforms to the <name>ISO-8859-1</name> (<name>LATIN-1</name>)
        character set, and may contain certain escape codes. The
        <name>ISO-8859-1</name> set is used in <name>Amiga</name> and
        <name>Windows</name> 3.xx. <name>GoldED+</name> can recognize, use and
        generate this kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        INTL &lt;destaddress&gt; &lt;origaddress&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0001</name>, this one solves the problem of
        crossing zone boundaries. Netmail only. <name>GoldED+</name> can
        generate this line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGID: &lt;origaddress&gt; &lt;serialno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0009</name>, this is a method for unique
        identification of a message. It can be used for dupe checking and
        replylinking. <name>GoldED+</name> can generate this line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        MSGTO: &lt;destaddress&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This one is not proposed anywhere, but it looks like it gives the
        address of the intended recipient. <name>GoldED+</name> takes the
        address for the dest field.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Original: &lt;Carbon copy, original name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Generated by the <name>FrontDoor</name> <name>FM</name> editor when it
        produces carbon copies.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PATH: &lt;list of nodes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0004</name>, this is a valuable tool for finding
        dupe links and other structural faults in the net structures.
        Unfortunately the list of nodes is 2D (net/node), and this creates
        problems when exporting echomail across zones.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PTH: &lt;list of nodes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Not yet a <name>FSC</name> (or is it?), this is a 5D-version of the
        <gi>PATH</gi> kludge, which sticks to the top of the msg.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        PID: &lt;identifier&gt; &lt;version&gt; &lsqb;serialno&rsqb;
      </head>
      <p>
        Proposed in <name>FSC-0046</name>, this takes a stab at the tearline
        abuse, and puts <q>safe</q> information about the first mail processing
        software in the line. This could be message editors, mail scanners and
        other stuff.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Realname: &lt;Name&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        This kludge was probably born in Russia because of some software was
        not able to properly handle non-<abbr>ASCII</abbr> characters in
        the header lines. Name should be written in national codepage.
        Otherwise I don't see any reason for this kludge. I don't know any
        software that generate this kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RFD: &lt;id&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Received For Distribution. A kludge inserted by one of the file
        announcement programs.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        REPLY: &lt;replyaddress&gt; &lt;replyserialno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0009</name>, this is the <gi>MSGID</gi>
        counterpart. When replying to a message with a <gi>MSGID</gi>, the
        <gi>MSGID</gi> of the original is renamed to <gi>REPLY</gi>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        RID:&lt;stuff&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Unknown kludge which looks suspiciously like the <gi>EID</gi>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        ROUTE &lt;list of nodes and points&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Specifies route path. Currently supported by <name>Unimail</name> and
        <name>S&bsol;Tosser</name>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SEEN-BY: &lt;list of nodes&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0004</name>, this is a tool for finding dupe links
        and other structural faults in the net structures. Depending on the
        mail tosser, the seen-by's may or may not have a preceding ^a
        character. Unfortunately the list of nodes is 2D (net/node), and this
        can create problems when exporting echomail across zones.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SN:&lt;serialno&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Serial number inserted by the <name>Dutchie</name> message editor.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SOT:
      </head>
      <p>
        Start Of Text. See <gi>EOT</gi>.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        SPLIT:
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FSC-0047</name>. A method for splitting large msgs so
        that some mail processors don't choke on them.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TCL1:, TCL2: &lt;long hex string&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Old obsolete swedish dupecheck/replylink kludge.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TID:
      </head>
      <p>
        Tosser <abbr>ID</abbr>. Similar to the <gi>PID</gi>, but specifically
        for mail processors.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TOPT &lt;to point&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Defined in <name>FTS-0001</name>, this tells the point number of the
        destination. Netmail only. <name>GoldED+</name> can generate this line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TZ &lt;offset from UTC&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Specifies the time to <hi>add</hi> to the header time to get the
        <abbr>UTC</abbr> (Universal Time Coordinated) time. Generated by newer
        versions of the <name>TrackMail</name> netmail processor.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        TZUTC
      </head>
      <p>
        See <gi>TZ</gi>. <name>GoldED+</name> can generate this line.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        Via: &lt;netmail tossing info&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Routed netmail messages usually gets a <gi>Via</gi> line for each node
        it passes through. This can be used for tracing faults in the netmail
        routing structure.
      </p>
    </div2>
    <div2>
      <head>
        XID:&lt;stuff&gt;
      </head>
      <p>
        Unknown kludge which looks suspiciously like the EID.
      </p>
    </div2>
  </div1>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </body>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
  </text>
<!-- --------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
</TEI.2>
