.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GOLDNODE 1 "September, 10 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
goldnode \- GoldEd+ nodelist compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goldnode
.RI [ -options "] [" configfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the command line parameters of
.BR goldnode ,
the nodelist compiler for GoldEd+.
.\" This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
.\" because the original program does not have a manual page.
.\" Instead, it has documention-in-progress that is copied to the
.\" /usr/share/doc/goldedplus directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
All options is case-insensitive.
.TP
.B \-?
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-C
Conditional compile.
.TP
.B \-F
Forced compile.
.TP
.B \-D
Remove duplicate nodes from index while compiling.
.TP
.B \-Q
Quiet compile. No screen output improves speed.
.TP
.BI \-S <size>
Set max size of a name in the index.
.TP
.BI \-U <file>
Create sorted FIDOUSER.LST userlist file.
.TP
.I [configfile]
The
.I <configfile>
is the path and filename of the GOLDED.CFG configuration file to read. If no
filename is given, the path specified with the GOLDNODE or GOLDED
environment variables are used.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GOLDNODE
The path where GoldNODE can find a GOLDED.CFG to use.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR golded (1),
.BR GoldED+\ Reference\ Manual.
.SH AUTHOR
GoldEd is copyright (C) 1990-1999 Odinn Sorensen
.PP
GoldEd+ is copyright (C) 1999-2001 Alexander S. Aganichev
.PP
GoldEd+ 1.1.5 is copyright (C) 2005 Stas Degteff and Golded+ team
.PP
This manual page was written by Peter Karlsson and updated by Stas Degteff
