.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GOLDED 1 "September, 10 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
golded \- offline message reader for Fidonet and Usenet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B golded
.RI [ -options "] [" keystacking ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the command line parameters of
.BR GoldEd+
(binary file
.IR golded ).
.\" This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
.\" because the original program does not have a manual page.
.\" Instead, it has documention-in-progress that is copied to the
.\" /usr/share/doc/goldedplus directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
All options is case-insensitive.
.TP
.BR \-? " or " \-H
Displays a help screen with all available commandline options.
.TP
.BI \-C <configfile>
Specifies another configuration file than the default
.BR GOLDED.CFG .
.TP
.B \-D
Disable old configuration keywords. For backward compatibility, GoldED+
still supports a number of old names for some configuration keywords. I
recommend that you use
.B \-D
sometimes and rename the keywords that are reported as unknown.
.TP
.BI \-E <echoid>
If specified, GoldED+ starts directly in the specified echo, bypassing the
arealist screen. See the AREASTART configuration keyword for more info.
.TP
.B \-EXPORTSOUP
Calls the SOUP packet export feature during the startup phase. This is the
same as starting it from the areascan SOUP Packet->Export menu item. The
SOUP export happens immediately after the regular startup area scanning (if
that is enabled) and after SOUP import.
.TP
.B \-F
Force recompile of most configuration files, but not all. Does not recompile
the *.CHS files.
.TP
.B \-FF
Force complete recompile of all configuration files, regardless of whether
they are up-to-date or not. This is equivalent to deleting all the *.GE?
files.
.TP
.BI \-INSTALL [=path]
Start the quick install procedure. You should give a path to your other mail
software if it cannot be found using environment variables or in current
directory.
.TP
.B \-IMPORTSOUP
Calls the SOUP packet import feature during the startup phase. This is the
same as starting it from the areascan SOUP Packet->Import menu item. The
SOUP import happens immediately after the regular startup area scanning (if
that is enabled).
.TP
.B \-M
Mute sounds. Disables all noises in GoldED+.
.TP
.B \-N
No share. If used, this prevents GoldED+ from using SHARE compatible
file-open calls, which are used by default. Works only until the SHAREMODE
keyword is used in GOLDED.CFG. This keyword is normally not useful, but may
be used to debug your setup or something.
.TP
.B \-NOSCAN
Disable the automatic startup area scanning (if that is enabled). This is
useful for automated SOUP import/export in a batch file. For example,
.B -noscan -importsoup @x y
imports SOUP then exits.
.TP
.B \-Q
Quiet. Turns off verbose config compile. On by default. This could be used
on the commandline to disable a
-B \-V
option in the GEDCMD environment variable.
.TP
.BI \-S <sortspec>
Sort all areas according to
-IR <sortspec> .
See the AREALISTSORT config keyword for details.
.TP
.BI \-T <seconds>
Set the timeout value. A value of zero (0) means never timeout. See the
TIMEOUT config keyword for details.
.TP
.BR \-V
Turns on verbose config compile. When used, GoldED+ will display the full
filename of each main config file it compiles. It also displays the name of
the detected multitasker, if any. This can be useful for debugging your
setup, and see if GoldED+ accesses the files (especially the AREAFILE's) it
is supposed to.
.BR \-VV
Same as \-V, but also displays all the active lines while compiling. This
could be used to find the exact spot if it crashes or stops while compiling.
.TP
.B \-W
If used, GoldED+ will create (and overwrite if existing) the file
GOLDAREA.INC, which will then contain all areas in the AREADEF form, sorted
by your AREALISTSORT specification. This is very useful for converting your
AREAFILE's to a form you can edit with your favorite text editor and use in
GoldED+. It is also useful if you have used the new AREADESC keyword or the
AREAFILE EchoList reader. The GOLDAREA.INC file (created in the GOLDPATH)
can be used by adding INCLUDE GOLDAREA.INC to your GOLDED.CFG or
GOLDAREA.CFG. When creating the file, GoldED+ will use . if an aka is the
same as the main aka, and leave out the optional origin if it's the same as
the first ORIGIN in your GOLDED.CFG. This makes it easier to share the same
GOLDAREA.INC between different setups.
.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-Y ", " \-Z
Reserved for debugging purposes.
.SH COMMANDLINE KEYSTACKING
Any non-option characters on the commandline are stuffed into the keyboard
buffer. See the chapter on keyboard definition and the KEYBSTACK keyword for
more info.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GOLDED
Path to the GOLDED.CFG file. It is recommended to set this variable, but
don't forget to change it if you move your GoldED+ setup to a different
directory!
.TP
.B GEDCMD
Specifies additional commandline options. Use this if you want to specify
options, but need to run GoldED without them (for example when renaming
GOLDED.EXE to DBEDIT.EXE in older versions of D'Bridge). You can override
the environment options with commandline options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rddt (1),
.BR goldnode (1),
.BR Golded+\ User\ Manual
and
.BR GoldED+\ Reference\ Manual.
.SH AUTHOR
GoldEd is copyright (C) 1990-1999 Odinn Sorensen
.PP
GoldEd+ is copyright (C) 1999-2001 Alexander S. Aganichev
.PP
GoldEd+ 1.1.5 is copyright (C) 2005 Stas Degteff and Golded+ team
.PP
This manual page was written by Peter Karlsson and updated by Stas Degteff
